And it's a great honor to share with all of you guys the content today.
I have a really brief introduction about who we are and what we did during the last three years.
We founded in 2023, and I will say more time to our richest researchers.
They actually did the 3D foundational models, the actual work.
So I will give more time for them.
So first of all, who we are?
Virtual AI, we have the best 3D foundational model.
We already serve more than 6.5 million pro creators today,
and more than 90,000 game studios are using us in their pipeline.
We cooperate with more than 700 enterprises like Tencent, NetEast, Popmart, and etc.
When we introduced Triple Studio in the middle of 2025,
we already generated more than 100 million 3D models already.
So today, more 3D models are generated by AI than did by actually 3D models.
Then what are the actual industries we are serving?
First of all, 3D printing and manufacturing.
First of all, if you are really interested in IPs and accessories, 3D printing is a good way to go.
And it's good.
I believe there are a lot of makers and gamers who are the same person.
For me, I play D&D, Dragon Dungeons and Dragons,
and I use 3D printing to print my avatars all the time.
And also, building industries as well.
Santa will actually introduce not only we could use 3D AI to improve efficiency in the AAA game pipeline,
but also in UGC and also for 3D player driven gameplays as well.
And also for e-commerce as robotics, spatial intelligence, AI gaming, metaverse, XR, etc.
And we will introduce our world model in the foreseeable future.
And as we believe that everyone will be able to generate 3D content,
especially CD interactive content like games in the future.
We introduce a foundational model nearly every quarter.
Now, the newest 3D foundational model is triple 3.1.
We will have the presentation today, and we will explain how we actually researched and introduced this new model.
We not only could generate a 3D plane model, but also texture PBR materials, etc.
We introduced our triple studio in the June of 2025 with multiple functions like magic brush,
like smart mesh, like better topology, auto-rigging, retargeting, segmentation, etc.
that enable our creators better at re-editing our content.
We actually invented auto-rigging for not only humans, but also animals like cats, dogs, even dragons and monsters.
And we invented auto-segmentation as well to help the creators to segment each AI-trained 3D model and edit each part.
That obviously improves the efficiency in the pipeline.
If you want to edit each part, you only take minutes instead of hours.
That's an example.
When you generate a 3D volume, it's no longer only a whole part, but into different segments, and each part is a complete model.
And also auto-rigging.
As I said, not only humanoid, but only robotics, but also dragons, monsters, even spiders, octopus, fishes, etc.
That's a really useful function, and we're going to introduce a new model to auto-rigging in really soon.
We have a really talented, intensive research team, as we will introduce later.
We already published more than 70 papers in recent 23 years.
And we also have more than 50 million 3D high-fidelity 3D models as our training data.
So, it helps us to give you a better AI-3D foundation.
We also did a lot of open-source programs, like 3Studio, like Honor 3D, and Show by SOR, which collaborated with Stability AI in 2024.
We already received over 20,000 stars on GitHub, and welcome to check it out on GitHub.
In our vision, especially I believe in 2026, this is the tipping point of the AI 3D technology.
That traditional game design workflow will be revolutionized by AI.
This year, AI will redefine the 3D workflow, not only for gaming, but animation, manufacturing, 3D thinking, etc.
We introduced Triple Studio to help us not only generate a complete 3D model,
but also to help the creators and developers to edit the 3D model and 3D content on this software.
So that you don't need to use Blender, Maya, 3D Max, etc. to edit your AI-3D model, but you could edit the software.
And also, we introduced the plugin ecosystem and 3D agents in this area.
We have an open API platform to encourage everyone to check it out.
Thank You in a separate video and develop a lot ofете on the choices on the way and laying down the path to develop a-9D Feedback machine done.
But already, many, many people are there!
What about Unreal Engineative Player on Earth?
So, you know, Windows multi-4, and we are thessä.
maybe design the new gameplay.
And we serve a lot of our
partners, like Lovable,
SeaArt, OpenArt, etc. So you could use
our ability on different agents,
different DCC softwares, like Blender,
Unity, etc. And as I said,
I want to leave more time for our researchers
and they will introduce how they actually research
this AI 3D technology. And I'll
stay. We have a booth on the main court.
If you have time, welcome, Mona, welcome to come and chat with me.
And we'll have a side event tonight. We'll provide
free dinner and calm and enjoy the party.
Okay, then.
I'll pass the mic to
Benny.
I'm very eager to see you.
Come on, Benny.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Hello.
Okay.
Welcome, everyone. I'm Benny from the
TRIPLE research team. Thank you for joining us today.
And I will be sharing with you some very exciting
progresses we've made in the past few months.
Before I start, I'd like to interview you guys
for some questions so I can know your background.
If there are any of you who work with 3D models or use 3D models in your work.
Oh, okay.
Almost everyone.
And have any of you have ever tried this kind of 3D AI tools before?
Please raise up.
Okay.
I see some of you have not tried this kind of AI tools.
And if you haven't tried this kind of AI tools, so what's the reason?
Is it because if there are any of you who think that the quality of the AI tools is just not good enough, please just raise up your hand.
Okay, I see you.
Okay, so I think this may change your mind after this talk because I will have some very exciting new models to share with you guys.
So I'll just start with my talk.
And in the TRIPLE AI research team, we mainly focus on the automatic creation of all kinds of 3D assets.
This includes 3D meshes, textures, materials, animations, and rigging, and also some more advanced 3D formats like costumes.
And built on top of these 3D assets, we have two more questions to invest in one.
The first is how to arrange these 3D assets, which gives us the automatic creation of 3D scenes.
And also, we invested on how to interact with these 3D assets.
And this gives us the automatic creation of game modules.
So the TRIPLE research team is kind of a pioneer in the research of 3D genetic models.
And back in 2024, March 2024, as I just mentioned before, we have released a TRIPLE SR model, which is a collaboration with Stability AI.
And this model, with this model, you can just input an image and you will get a 3D mesh.
And this 3D mesh, it does not look very good. It's kind of not useful at all.
It's just a blob of triangle faces.
But it's the only one we can get back at that time.
And meanwhile, in parallel, we developed the TRIPLE model series to launch it as a product, starting from HHH1.
And our flagship model has involved over three generations.
And now we have TRIPLE 2, TRIPLE 3, and TRIPLE 3.1, which we just released last month.
And with TRIPLE H3.1, if you give the same input image, you can get this very beautiful and detailed 3D model under 30 seconds.
So this is a huge leap in the evolution quality for 3D genetic models.
With TRIPLE H3.1, we can achieve many exciting things in this TRIPLE model.
First, we can have very detailed geometry recovery where you can upload an image with a full, very detailed feature on the image.
And we can get all the geometry detail on the image.
Also, we have, I think, the best text rendering quality on the market, where you can see on the top right.
We have this banner, which says Happy New Year on it.
I think we are the only one that can achieve this compared to other competitors.
And also, we have hyper-realistic textures, which is very useful if you are building some PBR material headlines.
And we'll have, I want to have to show as much as possible what we can, like, how higher quality we can get to this.
And also, we start input single image or multi images, which I think is very helpful to the outline of data making.
So, this TRIPLE H3.1 model, I think we have a very good feedback from the community.
I think the model is, I think, the state of the art on the market.
And you can try it now in TRIPLE Studio.
I think you have some free trials even if you are not a paid user.
Okay, so, we have the TRIPLE H3.1 model.
I'm sorry, I'll just leave here for some minutes to, if some of you want to scan this here.
Okay, so, even if we have the TRIPLE H3.1 model, I think there is still some gaps between the integration to the real game-making pipeline.
I think there are two things we really care about.
The first is, we still need a lot of extra steps even if we have the TRIPLE H3 model.
For example, if you get the TRIPLE model generated on our platform, you may still need to manually clean up some floaters or some areas that you don't want.
And you need to do the simplification so that the model has a minimal number of faces that supports real-time rendering on it.
And also, if you want to create a large scene, you may need some level details.
And so, these extra steps may hinder the whole process of automatic asset permission.
And also, the generation is not so fast now.
Even if you only need, like, 30 seconds to get results, but the result is, like, often not perfect.
So, you need to iterate again and again on your result.
And I think it's kind of too slow for rapid iteration.
And so, these extra steps you need to do and waiting times is still a major bottleneck for bringing the generative 3D capabilities to modern game engines.
And I think this changes today because we're releasing this new TRIPLE P1 model.
I think this is the first time we do this kind of release in public.
And this new TRIPLE P1 model has very good features.
It can create real, applicable game assets in very fast time.
So, today, next we will do a real live demo of this TRIPLE P1 model.
I think this is kind of a risky choice because there can be many things that could happen in the live demo, but I think it will be a very good way to show you guys how powerful this model is.
So, I will hand over my mic to Ronnie here. He is the creator and major contributor of the TRIPLE P1 model.
And he will show you all the powerful aspects of the TRIPLE P1 model.
So, you need a microphone.
Yeah. So, great thanks to Simon and Benny.
Hello everyone, and thank you for coming.
I'm Ronnie, a member of the research team in TRIPLE.
Today, I'm very excited to release the TRIPLE P1 model.
This is our latest step toward instant mesh creation.
And our goal is simple in one sentence.
That is, turn images into usable 3D meshes as quickly as possible.
And many creative workflows today, whether you are building games, creating assets for animation or prototyping environments,
So, the step from the concept reference images to usable meshes is still relatively slow, right?
So, this is a very typical way that artists create some kind of assets for gaming or animation.
So, they may start from the reference image and then move into modeling tools and do some retopology and optimization to get the final mesh.
But, this way is quite unconsuming.
Yeah. So, before, and that process works well, but it also takes a lot of time.
So, with our new model, TRIPLE P1, we are exploring a different direction.
So, what if a mesh can be generated directly and almost instantly while giving you control over topology and complexity of it?
So, before we start the demo, let's take a brief recall to look at how many current 3D generation pipelines or tools or platforms work for the clean topology mesh.
Most often follow something like this.
So, first we have to give some image and option you can give the multiple images and do some kind of generation or construction to get the high poly mesh.
just as the triple edge 3.1.
And maybe that can be quite detailed, but if you want to put it into your game or your PC or your mobile, it can be quite time consuming to render them and animate them.
So, maybe you will have a retominated pipeline to turn them into meshes with clean topologies.
And these methods can produce impressive results, but the process often involves several intermittent representations and results.
And because of that, generation can be quite long and take lots of time to adjust.
Often takes around 5 minutes or something even longer depending on the resolution.
And in addition, the meshes often require additional coming ups if you do not satisfy, not satisfactory about them.
So, our goal is triple P1 is slightly different.
We notice that a clean topology can be quite important for street learning or game use.
So, start from that principle.
Instead of applying topology on a high poly model, actually we are trying to make mesh generation with a native way so that you can create a mesh with seconds with just a given image.
So, let's start about our demo today and maybe we will focus on, yeah.
So, here is it.
In case you didn't see the text from the left.
So, I love you.
Yep.
So, we actually want to bring you a relaxed experience so that you can see whether triple P1 is best enough for you and whether it has the green topology for you.
Yeah.
So, let's start.
For today's demo, there is a faster preview of the triple P1 model.
It focuses on the geometry only.
For texture generation and further, you can try our model of the triple studio.
So, that is also, that is already presented in the studio and in the studio it integrates many other useful 3D tools such as texturing, segmentation and so on.
So, our new model is directly online so definitely you can give it a try.
And let's start with some, so let's start with some simple images.
So, here we have already some images in the library.
And, yeah.
So, maybe you can start with some simple and see what will happen if we use this P1 model.
Yeah.
So, simply choose one and click apply.
So, here we have some options about the model.
So, you can control the face counts of the model up to 20,000 faces.
But, here we start from the simple one and just try 5,000.
Yeah.
Click jump.
You can count.
Yeah.
Nearly three seconds, right?
And, so that's, the model is trying to infer the overall shape of the input image.
Yeah.
You can, they will keep the major geometry details and the reason, give a reason for topology about it.
And, you can see that we, we require a 5,000 face mesh and it will give you the 5,55.
Here, yes, that's about the, about the mesh itself.
And, let's take a closer look first.
The model, you can see the overall volume is captured quite well.
And, the major structures are preserved.
For example, the overall shape, the, the dragon head, some nails on it.
And, and also on some sharp decorator.
If we zoom in, you can also look at the topology flow.
You can see that the triangles are distributed relatively in a reasonable way across the surface for generated mesh.
This is already quite useful.
I think it has a starting point for, for the editing.
Another interesting thing is that The model often captures the ability feature quite accurately.
Yep.
So, just now we try the 5,000 face option.
And, you can add more option here.
Let's say 2000, 10,000 and 20,000
Just click here, you can generate 4 runs
And for different runs, the generating speed can be quite related to the basic test
Let's do it
So, I think this is a very impressive result for you
So, click here, you can write it
Let's view the topology
Yeah, most complicated one
Yeah
So, many PC games can handle higher detailed meshes
So, here we take a
Generally, the desired polygon counts in fewer, the general process can be shorter
And you can see that all shapes or all the lines are preserved
But the surface for the simpler run is simplified
And they kind of match the views for, for example, background access, mobile environments, or rapid prototyping
And for the medium complexity version
Maybe it has to add more details on it
Make the overall shape more smooth
So, depending on the use case, you can choose the level or complexity
That best fits your pipeline
So, let's try something other
Other image
Actually, you can select multiple images here
And see what will happen
It really just requires
Sequential generation
You can select
Nine images
And faster
It can repeat something
Yeah
So, all the meshes are generated
One, one by one
On one GPU
On the cloud
Yeah
I think the topology is quite well right
Yeah, also, we
We
We do not
Have the all-time constraint here
So, you can generate
The list
With
Single layers
For example
You may have some
Characters
With
Single address
I think that can be useful
For
Animation
Something like that
Yeah
So, even for
This kind of
Fury
Port
The input
It
It
It
Yeah
So, you can do some editing
Point
Yeah
So, with this demo
Maybe you want to
Generate
The
Images
Or try
The
Live demo
And
Today we
Provide a link
For you
To upload your own images
Here
So that I can try
These images for you
So
Here is the QR code
Yep
So, maybe you can scan the QR code
And
Upload the images
From the upload box here
You can choose the camera
Or
You can choose to upload the images
From the camera
Or from your image library
And
I will see them in
The
Lime demo
In its library
In live demo
So, later
You will try to
Use your
Images
And
We will open this page
For some time
So you can upload images
So, images can be
Characters
Props
Objects
Concept Art
And
Even random photos
So
Later we will take
A few examples
And generate
Mashes line
So
Later we will take
A few examples
And generate
Mashes line
So
I think
This is interesting
About the part
So that we can
Open
We can get very diverse
Imports
Some images
Might be
Stylized drawings
Realistic photos
Or
Some
Game concept art
And
The 3D model
Will still try
To
Look for
A reasonable
3D structure
Ok
So
Go back
To the
Like that
And
So
Let's look at
Something different
We will need
The
Images
Later
So
Let's look at
Something different
In many
Scenarios
You may
Want
Extreme
Control
On
How
Your
Fine
Characters
Like
So
Here
We have
The functionality
For
Multi-view
Generation
And
In this example
We provide
Multiple
Images
Of
The same
Objects
Objects
Objects
Some
Example
About
The same
Character
And
Just
Drag
To
Adjust
The
Press
Slot
So
When only one
Images
Is
Available
Some
Parts
Of
Geometry
Not
Hidden
The
Depth
The
Depths
Shape
The
Depths
Share
The
Backside
Structures
And
The
Oppure
Here
here. It may need more stable geometry than the single image input case. This is especially
useful for access where accuracy matters more such as you may have some heroes, characters
and from the reference images designed by artists. So I think it can be useful for the real scenario.
So let's try something more creative when using some AI tools. It is inevitable that you will
find they will give you some results that you're not wrong. It could be some imperfections
or it may not imagine the same way as you saw. Other times, your demands gradually increase.
You want to graduate some design details to a basic model. So you feel that the editing
functionality is crucial for an interactive 3D tool. And we are going to try it right
now for the new functionalities here. And we will start from a base mesh.
So in this way, you can edit the model by a selected box to regenerate that with the same image
or a different one. So here it is a boy character. And what if I wanted to wear the cute dinosaur
hat? So let me choose one, maybe this one. And here, sorry. So maybe here you can select the box to add a hat and replace the image with the same character wearing a hat.
So the process can be made in the same fast way.
So let's just compute right here. So here you can see that the gradient part and the latest part are quite a bit better view. And this kind of tools can help you to adjust what you can get from the one shot generation path. You may add it with
different images that come from other image AR tools. So I think that can be useful.
So what the models most important is that it provides a very fast way for you to create prototypes or meshes with clean topologies. So maybe here, I think a good demonstration is that you can select a series of characters or props or items for a game with the same style.
So that you can quickly get all the prototypes. So that you can quickly get all the prototypes. Just in one click maybe.
Let's see how fast it will be.
So as the mesh appears, right? You can see that you've got around, you've got seven meshes within around 30 seconds. And you can see that each one maintains the generative style and consistent geometry
scale. And this makes it possible to generate entire SNS for your gaming in a much faster way. So this is kind of a series of weapons. And we try some other styles and see whether it can recover it in a faithful way.
So, yes.
Yes, there are just a particular style.
Yes, I think the inputs from just two series are quite different styles. And our models can handle these different types of styles that we may want.
you may want. You may take a close look at the topology itself, and for the belt on the swirl.
Of course you can try different complexities.
So I think it can be quite useful for your mesh design pipeline.
So let me check if anyone have some of the images so I can try them.
Yeah, very good. So we have plenty of images. What's this?
I don't know whether you want it. You want the text or the OTPD seal?
Yeah, let me just choose some, maybe 3D objects. At least objects, right?
Okay. So let me try the balance model. So in this, in this mode, we can select up to term images.
Maybe, sorry, I should select from the library. Yeah, these are good. Yeah, good boy.
I want to skip the slide here. Let me see.
Yeah, maybe I should turn off the wireframe for a better view.
Yeah, most of the images are characters, I think. Yeah. We do greatly on characters, right?
Um, yeah. This is a plate.
He thinks the detail should be the texture. Yeah.
Yeah, let me check one by one. Yeah. Good soldier. Holding a line.
Yeah, so even for the dress, we'll give some really more notes. Yep.
The silk. Yeah.
I think that's, that's good. That's quite good, right?
So let's try another batch.
I will try my best to fulfill your requirement.
But for the slides, I will skip it.
Yeah, I will start from here.
Okay, the hamburger.
Yeah, the...
What's this?
Let me try.
Let's try different classics.
Let's try different classics.
Oh, that's kind of blur, right?
But the loss are still reasonable, as you can see.
And the 2D flat cat to a 3D pan model.
And...
Yeah, Chicago.
Hamburger?
Oh, not hamburger. Sorry.
It's crab. Sorry.
But...
Yeah, still good for foods, right?
Yeah, the architecture.
Yes.
We have things.
For things, yeah.
It's incredible, right?
It was a good recovery, even for a 2D flat style.
For a whole scene.
Yeah, so...
Yeah, so...
Here we even include your hand.
Some kind of monster.
So what's this?
This is the architecture.
Maybe you have to upload more?
And your favorite last batch?
Okay.
Okay, so...
Yeah, so...
Here we even include your hand.
Some kind of monster.
So what's this?
This is the architecture.
Maybe you have to try...
Maybe you have to upload more?
And maybe you have to upload more?
So maybe you have to upload it more and give it any last steps
I'm not sure whether there's a few
Cats, animals
Yeah, people love cats, right?
Just random slider, it didn't load here
It didn't load, yeah, not spatched
So for last minute
All looks closed
If the network is back
Yep, it's closed
So today we have a quick look at triple P1
And our goal is to make 3D mesh creation faster
More controllable
And more accessible
But instead of waiting minutes for reconstruction or generation
We want creators to be able to
Go from the image to mesh in seconds
And iterate freely
So we're very excited to see how you creators can build something interesting
With this technology
And definitely you can try it online
In our triple studio
With a better version
With the high quality texture
Yeah, for the try
Welcome to our booth
And try it on our triple studio
And yeah, that's all
Thanks everyone for watching this demo
About the drill P1 demo
Thank you
Thank you Ronnie for the wonderful live demo
And maybe if any of you want to claim your own model
After this talk
You can come to the stage
And we will send you the outer mesh
Maybe to your .
Okay, so
Here are some highlights
Of the triple P1 model
First we have a very clean topology
You saw earlier in the demo
And it works well both for the organic shapes
And hard surfaces
And also we have a very fast generation speed
You can get results back
In two to ten seconds
And you can control the complexity of your mesh
Using a face count
And you can have mesh output
Running from 500 faces to 20,000 faces
Which I think
For the request for most game methods
And also we also have single or multi-image input
And we will have in the future
Maybe building level details
Automatically
And do local editing
Like in the demo show
If you want to change only a local area of your mesh
And the function
The model has been shipped on triple studio
Which you can scan this QR code to try
But I think it's only for paid subscribers only now
But I think you will have some free channels
From the new
Starting from us
And if you want to try the triple P1 model free
You're welcome to come to our booth
1141
And we have also some gifts for you
Okay
So next I'll briefly talk about
Some experiments we've been making
In the triple research team
First is automatic sync creation
So with the triple P1 model
I think we have the capability
To quickly generate a bunch of 3D assets
Using simple input
So here we built a genetic workflow
To automatically generate all kinds of 3D scenes
So first we will have an empty scene
And a prompt to describe which kind of scene you want
And the agent will use the Shql API
Specifically the QR model
To generate a bunch of self-consistent 3D assets
And it will try to place these assets in the scene
But it's not going to be very perfect for the first job
So we will render the scene to the image
And try to evaluate how well the scene is placed
Or where it goes around using VL.net.mol
And we will iterate over this pipeline
And we try to render and adjust the position of the object
And then again, adjust again until
They find that the scene is properly adjusted
So we get the final scene where you can deploy
To your game or so
So on the left we show some scenes
Fully automatically generated
And if you want to try the triple P1 API
For building your own agentive flow
Welcome to scan this QR code
This will bring you to the triple API platform
And the last thing I want to talk about is word models
So is there anyone of you ever heard of word models?
Please raise your hand
Okay, some of them
The word models basically
We are talking about video word models here
The video word models is actually a form of video generation model
So it works in an auto regression fashion
From the last frame you get
You get a user input or user action
Like the user wants to go forward or backward
Or to left or right
Or do some other kinds of actions like hit or shoot
And the video model will predict the next frame
Given your action
So there are many potential use cases of this kind of model
For example we can use this kind of model to do scene creation
You give it a prompt
You say I want something like this
And you just use your arrow keys to wander around in the scene
And it will give you very detailed results of the frames
And you can use this kind of model to do rapid prototyping of game projects
For example you design some kind of game dynamics
But it's very hard to implement
So you can use this kind of model to just imagine what it would be like
If you have this type
And also it will be I think in the long future
It will be a new gaming form
Where you can just customize
All kinds of logics and dynamics
Using a single prompt or the percentages
And in the middle we gave some preview videos
Of our triple wordbox
We are currently developing
So these videos are coming from a user input image
For example you input an image you want to
Like you want to dive into the scene
That is described by this image
And you just use arrow keys to like walk around in this
And if you want to get more updates on our research
Also include this or not
You can follow us on social media
These two QR codes are the social media
For me and Ronny who did that
So welcome to contact us anytime
If you have any questions about algorithms or products
Or any other plans in the triple research team
So welcome to contact us
And yeah I think we may
We can take some questions here
So if anyone
Any of you have any questions about
Like the triple P1 model we showed before
Or any other techniques you are interested about
Or any other techniques you are interested about
You can use that stand-by
Hi
I have a question about the input with the triple AI
So far I can say that the input really on the image
You know
But my idea is that
Can we input not only on the image
Only on the
On the
Kind of layout
Or UI
I can input
3D model
Just like a draft
And I can output
More
More fantasy
More
Better
3D models
Other results
Or
I can input
A room layout
So like
A room
With some
Some
Boxes
Or some draft
Models
Just like
There is so far
There is a bedroom
With
Exact
Positions
Rotation
Scale
Some information
And I got
Output results
With
Same stylized
And
Better
Room
I see
It's
True
Or
So
So
The question is
Can we
Input
Like
A course
Model
Or
Layout
To
Get the
Resulting
3D model
So
It's not currently supported
On
Triple
Studio
But
We are
So
Any
Any
Other
Applications
You mentioned
Before
Like
You want
To
Layout
Or
Some
Other
Things
For
Your
See
I think
It's
Probably
Not going
To
I think
There are
Many
Related
Research
In
Our
Team
And
We may
Be open
Sourcing
So
I
Want to
Know
Do
You
Have
Any
Plan
Or
From
Based
Or
Anything
Once
We
Can
Edit
In
Prompt
So
The
Question
Is
Can
We
Edit
The
Model
Using
Prompt
So
It's
Possible
That
We
First
Use
To
Edit
And
We
Will
Feature
In
Triple
Studio
For
The
P1
Model
For
The
Next
Month
Hi
Hi
Hi
I
Welcome to
Texture
Yeah
We
Can
Generate
Texture
Yeah
We
Can
Generate
Texture
We
Can
We
Just
Don't
Show
That
If
We
Want
Generate
Texture
To
Can
To
To
To
To
To
To
To
To
To
To
To
To
To
a more detailed mesh, but we are developing an automatic algorithm that can generate the
corresponding normal map along with the triple Q1 model. I think maybe we can have some progress
. Okay, so the last question.
You asked my question, so we have time for two minutes.
Okay, so this concludes this session, and we may have another talk from Sienna, the CMO of our company.
We will be talking about some community works from the triple community.
Thanks, Penny and Roni. I guess I have too much time. Yes, thank you.
Yes, I actually want to show you guys some projects from our community and how we use
triple into your own workflows. And let me wrap up a little bit about our algorithm.
And the first one is triple H3.1. You can see it's a high fidelity flagship model.
You can use it on the triple studio. And the second one is our triple P1.
And two seconds to generate an engineering assets. And actually, from the traditional pipeline,
you need to concept design regeneration for the topology and making texture to do the rigging and animation.
But for now, almost every step here could be generated by triple so that you can easily do some idea validation using triple studio
triple studio and to take more time to your own create audience.
And to some examples from triple studio and triple community.
And the very, very first example is to do the environment building.
that you can easily do something large scale. Like cities, landscape, and architecture.
Normally require extensive many work with AI generations. Like team can create many environment assets quickly.
and then assemble them into the whole things like from Unity, Unreal, or any Blender.
Or this is the software is here. Then you can see the scenarios can become, especially here,
that everything here are building by triple and triple 2.5, I guess.
Yes. And I think it gives artists more building blocks. And speeds up this in-building process.
And teams can experiment with different layouts ourselves. And gameplay spaces much faster than before.
And here's a simple example workflow. SSR first generation is by triple.
Then they can be exported into tools like Blender, Unity, and Rural.
And finally, they can assembly and input it into engines such as Godot Unity.
What previously required significant modeling time cannot be produced and refined much faster.
Sometimes even, yeah, and even in 30 seconds or early same prototype.
And finally, I want to show you guys some, like, the UGCA gameplays, like, like, from our triple game jam.
We actually launched triple game jam these days. And we collect more than 200 projects from creators around the world.
And I want to show maybe some of them. All of the creators here are integrating triple's API into their own real-time gameplay.
For example, we're building the character system, the environmental system, and also some of them are building tools or any other assets in the puzzle games to explore and save more times and build more gameplays with generative AI.
So basically, if you want to have a trend, please use our tools to experience the robot one.
It's a fighting game with triple. Then you can upload your own image to make a character here and to experience the fighting game here.
And thank you all. If you want to have more discussion with our team, please follow us. Follow us on any social media here and visit our booth. Thank you, guys.
