on optimizations. And this thing came around called large language models. I'm sure you've
heard of it by now. But it's basically AI models capable of emulating thought. And the
particular thing that I'm going to be talking about are coding assistants. We've been using
it also, we've been now using it for our performance optimization work because it's not just graphics
development. It's basically backend and applications, web services. And there we've used it quite
successful. But the thing is for graphics, I've been trying it for a while and it wasn't
that good yet. But I, well, I basically kept trying it for a while. And I wanted to see
like, hey, can we apply this also for graphics development? Would it be effective at that?
So basically the question is, can LLMs accelerate integrating a high quality path tracer in a
complex game engine? We've been mainly using Cursor. It's one of the first ones that were available
at NVIDIA for internal use. So it's basically a fork of Visual Studio code. And it's a code
assistant and it's a bridge between IDEs and LLMs. It gives you all the goodness from
VS Code, but it basically brings an agentic workflow to it so that you can iterate very rapidly
instead of manually coding. And then the good thing is it still supports all the Visual Studio
code extensions, which makes the LLMs more powerful in general. I'm going to be talking a little bit
about Godot. Well, it's a game engine. It's already been around for a long time, since 2001. It's open source
under MIT from 2014. But they open sourced it basically at the moment that Unity came out. And they were like,
OK, we're not going to be like a private engine anymore that people can just buy. We will open source it. And that's also around
basically the moment when it was Godot 4.0. I really started taking interest in it because it had
Botan. And at that point we could actually do some advanced graphics rendering with it. They added things like
SDF-DI, Virtual-DI, Screen Space Reflections, Screen Space Indirect Lighting, Temporal Anti-Aliasing,
Polydumetrics, and 4-plus renderer. One interesting thing about Godot is that it's GeoCell-centric.
Bolton is their main render backend, which is not something we're used to. We usually
see DarkX12 games. So that was an interesting challenge, but it's quite interesting. And
these are some games that we might be targeting for path tracing or ray tracing. So like Road
to Bostock, this comes out maybe in a few months, I think. And EVKK, which is, I think
these are the most prominent Godot 3D games that come out soon. But there's also how much
of 3D games that came out with Godot. They just had Slate Aspire 2 with Godot and a massive
amount of people are playing it. So yeah, this is really about like pulling it to the next level
and making it ready for next-gen graphics. So, how do we do it? What if we just ask LL directly?
Implement path tracing as well. How hard can it be, right? Well, this is the answer you're getting. This is a very ambitious request. It can take months to years. I need to understand the scope better.
And it comes up with a list of questions, right? It'll ask you like, hey, what are you looking for here? Because it's a very open question. You can make a path
in many ways. So it'll give you a bunch of questions. And you can then give it some answers. And this was the answer I gave it. I want full production path tracing, like Quake TRT-X, but used to be
DLSS RR. I don't just want RT reflections, but I want full path tracing, 3 bounces, 1 sample pixel. I don't know. There's also DirectX 12, but let's start small, right?
Use the ray tracing APIs. I don't want some software path tracer and GLSL. And make sure that all the configuration options are in the world environment.
We charge this configuration for Godot, basically the render configuration.
Alright, well then, basically it comes up with a small plan. It's like, hey, this is what I'm going to do. I'm going to try all this stuff.
This is the features that I'm going to be doing. And I did this on basically the branch before they just merged the ray tracing.
They had no ray tracing in it at all at that point. A little bit later they had it, a little bit of a beginning.
But this was completely vanilla. Like, it was just some GLSL based token. And it starts implementing stuff. And very quickly, like in a few minutes, you have 3,000 lines of code.
But it doesn't work. But we did have some settings though. So that's a bonus. But yeah, the console is showing all kinds of errors. And it's not really working.
So, okay, let's try to put those errors in there. Let's see what happens, right? No, still nothing. It was spinning around in circles. Not really getting anywhere.
So, bit of a train wreck. This was with the cursor and Cloud Opus 4.5. But the problem is, it's too big of a task. It's too vague. You can't really do this properly.
Because it doesn't have enough reference. And it has no concept of a plan or how it can actually iterate on this problem.
Especially when debugging. Like, it had some samples that actually looked alright. But then it threw away all the code. And it just got nowhere.
But luckily only now it was waves. So this was just a small experiment that I did.
So then, how do we do it instead? Well, there's a traditional way. You can hit the books. You can Google Stack Overflow. Start looking for some references.
You can have some colleagues, friends. Like, how does this stuff actually work? There's actually, this link right here is from Jakob Baker.
He was my teacher at some point. This was basically before GPU ray tracing was a thing. And, yeah, he's got some nice articles.
There used to be a very nice forum, OPF. But he's preserved some of that. That's basically one of the OGs in ray tracing.
And then there's also ShaderToy. Where you can look at ray marchers or things like that. And they have great references for how path tracing works.
And you can play around with it. And I do recommend you do that before you start on something like this.
Because it is, if you don't know what you're building, you also don't know if the LLM is going to give you any issues.
Or that is steering you in the wrong way. Right?
A little bit about the timeline of the, of this whole project.
2024, I already started on this whole, basically these iterations.
We had an internal go-ahead. I talked to my managers and like, hey, I want to do, I want to do something for Godot.
I want to put DLSS in there. And this was basically pre-AI, right?
So this is Cloud Opus. And we didn't have any, um, we didn't have any AI yet at that point.
Really internally that we could use. You had ChatDBT, I think, at that point already.
So it was a little bit usable, but nothing really super powerful.
Um, so basically in June, I, I made some DLSS SR and FG integration, but that was without AI.
Um, but around December, um, 3.7 came out and we started getting access to Cursor internally.
And I was doing some experiments, just, uh, like how, what I said before, we were doing some experiments internally with it.
And finding some success. And, so then in 2025, I met up with Clay John and, um, uh, Bastian and HP.
And we basically talked about like, hey, um, let's put a phosphorus in the dough.
Um, and, uh, I want to do it somewhere, somewhere next year.
Um, like next time we're at GDC, I want to have it done.
At least have a, have a working version.
Um, the full-time production started somewhere around December,
because during that time I still had a lot of other work to do.
But then, by then there was, uh, Opus 4.5, uh, 4.5.
And it was, um, starting to get very usable.
And basically in two months, most of the code was done.
And, uh, there was also some events from the Godot side that came up in 2024.
It was Antonio Casiano's RT implementation.
He basically did some preliminary work integrating BLAS and TLAS into the engine.
Uh, he made some samples to do, uh, ray tracing, aiming occlusion.
But, uh, it wasn't nowhere near, like, full material evaluation
or, like, a whole pipeline technique for a path tracer.
But it was a good start.
And I, I used that as a base, basically.
And in February, uh, 4.7, the work from Antonio was mainline.
So, I could actually start basing it on that.
So, let's go back to June 2025.
Um, like I said, my main job was performance analysis.
Uh, but we, when, when I was doing that work,
what I found out is that if you have examples for the AI,
it actually gets a lot better because it collapses what it needs to do.
It has to, uh, guess less.
And it's, it, that, that's, uh, in general, like,
that seems like a winning recipe.
Um, so, I've basically started to apply it on a personal framework first
that I've been developing.
Um, that's basically for, uh, I've used it for Cyberpunk performance analysis.
And I, I, I know the code, like, completely because I, I, I broke all of it.
So, I, that's the thing I did first.
It's not necessarily the way you have to do it, but that's how I did it.
And, uh, I used that as an example.
And then, to use that to transfer it to Godot.
So, I'm gonna show you a little bit about this prototype.
This is basically what I made for Cyberpunk.
Uh, it doesn't look like a lot of, uh, complexity here, but it's actually,
Cyberpunk, uh, has about a hundred thousand TLS instances.
And to do that, it requires some substantial optimizations.
And I wanted to know, okay, how fast can we actually get it
if we don't have a game workload, we just have some synthetic benchmark.
But the thing is, this thing was DirectX 12 only.
So, you know, it's Vulcan and GLSL.
Can, can AI actually add supports for Vulcan?
Yes. Yes, it can.
Uh, like I said, you have a, clearly defined interface.
You have a DirectX 12 version.
And you have your, you have your class definitions.
And you have your example.
You have DirectX 12.
And then you just ask it to port one to the other.
And that works.
And also, that's proof that it works on unpublished code.
Because my framework is not online.
It's basically inter-MDA only.
It's internal.
And so that, that also gave me good hope that
we could use this stuff for more than just on open source code
where, where things are easily trained for AI models.
Um, basically the setup was, um, I, I made sure that
if, if my engine crashes, I've made a sample here.
If it crashes, I dump the call stack to SDL.
And that's very useful.
Because if that happens, then the AI can see that.
It sees the call stack.
And immediately then starts looking at the code.
Figure out, okay, I crashed there.
Okay, now I can fix it.
So basically I didn't have to do anything.
I just had to click run, run, run, run.
Just keep, keep it, keep it, let it go.
And, and it will figure out all the problems on its own
during the porting.
Because it, it'll, it'll make mistakes.
But then if it has a call stack or it can,
it actually even found my validation flag on its own.
And then the Vulkan runtime basically told it what to do
and actually fix all the issues.
And, and again, just dump it to SDL and it'll, it'll figure it out.
As long as it's there.
So using that, I basically started making this prototype.
I first started with a rasterizer because it's, it's generally easier.
The binding, the bindings are there and I already had that in my code base.
I just made a simple IBL rasterizer.
And it was mostly created by Opus.
I did some plumbing in the C++ side.
But Opus made a tool to make the IBL split some approximation cubemaps.
And it also made the shaders to use them in real time.
And it also, yeah, this is my image UI work here.
But yeah, it just served as a reference.
Because the next step was obviously making the path tracer.
And this was a first attempt with Opus 4.0.
This was a September, 2025, give or take.
And I, I just started asking you for a Blin-Fong path tracer.
But, as you can see, it didn't really work out well.
Like, top is the rasterizer, bottom is the path tracer.
It was buggy.
Right?
So, how do we fix that?
Well, what if we just take some code that's an open source and we just put that in the folder.
And then we just ask it, like, hey, can you actually implement this BRDF in the path tracer?
And five minutes later, we have this.
This was some work from Jakob.
And it's basically you'll find on GitHub if you look for it.
If you're interested in trying it yourself.
This was a bit of a sidetrack.
But one thing is that it had some energy conservation issues.
Like, Carmelo came and said to me, like, hey, there's some energy conservation issues.
But that's kind of expected with GGX.
This is single scattering.
And multi-scattering is not taken into account.
And actually, Carmelo wrote a paper on this, how to fix that stuff.
I actually tried letting the AI figure that out.
But that didn't really work.
So actually, having people around that can help you is still very, very, very important.
And we found that out in the end.
But I fixed that in the reference path tracer.
And then, so that we can put that in Godot properly the first time.
So, let's talk about the Godot implementation.
The first thing, because the code from Antonio was from 2024, December.
And we were in November 2025.
So, you can imagine.
I think the code was somewhere below 4.2.
And we were at 4.6 at that time.
So, there was a massive, massive background on commits.
I had to do multiple things.
I basically had to take this ray tracing test branch.
And then, merge it with the ray tracing base thing.
With the branch.
And the cursor could just easily fix the conflicts there.
And this is another.
At the time when I was doing this, I didn't have this.
But I recommend that you then enable planning mode.
And then use this conflict.
Fix the ray based conflicts.
In case of ambiguity, ask me questions about it.
Because if you do that, instead of just making assumptions, it will then start asking you multiple choice questions.
About like, hey, I have this problem.
How do you want to solve it?
So, then you get a way better result.
It's a little bit more work from you.
But you have less issues down the line.
And very quickly, that allowed me to update the branch to latest.
And I still use this technique pretty much weakly.
Just to update it to the latest model version.
Because it's just so convenient.
If you have massive merge conflicts, it's not a problem anymore.
So, this test branch from Antonio, the problem with this was that he added a new render.
And in Godot, multiple renders have different modes.
But if you get the 4 plus render, you can't.
If you switch to the ray tracing render, for example, it has to switch.
The whole engine has to restart.
But I didn't want that.
I wanted to have just a button that you can click.
And then it immediately turns on path tracing.
So that you can toggle it during runtime.
And because of that, also the way that was implemented, there's a lot of duplication.
Basically, the 4 plus render was just duplicated.
And we had to deduplicate it, basically.
I wanted to merge it back into the 4 plus render.
So, the way I did that was basically I asked it to compare the ray tracing render
to the most modern 4 plus render in the project.
And there should be a lot of similarities.
Please write all that stuff in the .nv file.
And the reason why I did that is that it pulls all that information into the context window.
And then, with the next question, I basically could ask it, like, hey, can you isolate now the ray tracing bits and meld it with the 4 plus render?
Because I want it to be just a boolean option that will enable ray tracing path instead.
And then it just came up with a plan.
And it executed it.
And very quickly, it found out all the duplication and removed all the duplication.
So, just then I had to do some iterations, just feeding down some errors.
But it worked really well.
So then, the only thing that was necessary after is to have that actual checkbox.
Right?
And it's a very simple question.
I just want to have a section that enables ray tracing on the cluster render.
And that just worked pretty much straight out of the box.
And once I had that, I had the barocentrics working, which is basically the habitable of ray tracing.
Alright, now it gets a little bit more difficult because we have to proceed with attributes.
And for attributes, you need bindless texturing.
And Godot doesn't have bindless texturing.
It also doesn't have things like unbounded arrays.
So, I first had to basically implement all those features.
I came up with some plan with it.
And in planning mode, I asked it about all these things.
Like, hey, I need bindless array support.
I need all these things.
And then, I recently went on with that.
And then, one thing that I also do is, I tell it, after all the planning is done, I tell it to focus on the plan.
Because if it does that, it will actually start going through all the things you discussed with it,
and starts verifying if it's missing something.
If some information is not there.
And that helps refine the plan so that it guesses less later on.
And then you just execute the plan, fix all the issues.
And this is vertex information, so then you get position, normals, and then the next thing was to get the bindless textures going.
It's also basically the same process.
You just tell them, hey, give me some abstraction for bindless textures.
I need to pull in all the textures that are in the scene.
And make a bindless array out of it.
And then, you just make a plan again.
You execute it.
And you start simple.
Right?
You don't go like, hey, put everything in there straight away.
Start with like, hey, you put four small little textures in there.
And I just want you to cycle through them or something.
So that you first have a beginning.
You test it.
And then you kind of iterate on it.
So that you don't give it too big of an ask in one go.
And that's usually easier than to debug.
And that's, after that was done, I brought in the materials and textures.
And that's then the result of that here.
You just have the albedo channel.
But also the, all the other channels are there.
One other thing, what I noticed once that was done, it was kind of slow.
If you had the scene, it took about 10 milliseconds of the CPU just to do it.
And the reason was, it's recreating the plus and less every frame.
Obviously that's very slow because then it has to rebuild all the vertices in the scene.
Like you have, I think this bistro scene is about 4 million triangles.
That can get pretty intense.
And you don't need to do it, right?
I'm always a bit of static.
So, I wanted to just add some caching to basically get the BLASs, the static BLASs.
If they don't change, just use the same BLASs, right?
Same thing here.
Plan, give target feedback, and then execute.
And also, I just told it to, hey, I need you to debug the cache because I need to know if you're actually hitting the cache.
So, please put some debug message in there and that's the alt.
And then very quickly I could iterate on it.
And it generated most of the code for the caching.
And I just gave some target feedback like, hey, don't use hash maps or make this more optimal.
And that performance was a lot better already.
And one other thing you can do, this was the second optimization I did,
is you can just use a CPU profiler like VerySleepy or Visual Studio's CPU profiler
and just make a screenshot out of the bottleneck.
And then you just ask the AI, hey, can you check this out?
What's going on there?
And then it'll just tell you.
There's probably a problem here, because then you can find the code
and it can actually tell you, hey, there might be an issue here.
In this case, I already know about it because we had a similar issue in Cyberpunk.
But basically what's happening is if you have a map buffer
and you just start randomly accessing it, the GPU doesn't really like that.
So it's better just to copy it off into a CPU separate buffer
and then copy it as a whole structure in the end.
So basically, yeah, I just pasted it in, explained that that was a problem
and it pretty much generated the code for that optimization.
And it worked really well, like 70% plus or something like that.
So then, then came the problem, the Alubi tool before also.
It all uses GLSL, but my prototype uses GLSL.
So one of the first things I needed to do was take that GLSL code
and for example that BRDF thing I talked about earlier,
I had to make it GLSL compatible.
So I gave it this prompt, I have this BRDF HSI, SLI,
and I need to port it to GLSL.
Could you do the Alubi?
It should be compatible with Godot's Shared Compiler.
And pretty much in a few minutes it had a full working version.
The problem was helped because this thing also already had support for CPU plus,
but I just added another backend, like here's the GLSL version
and very, very easily it was a working version.
So in a moment by that I started coming in with a bigger ask.
Let's bring over the path tracer.
So the way I did it is I just copied in my reference path tracer,
just copied in the HCL files and then told it like,
hey, can you look at this path tracer that I made here?
I want you to just port it over to GLSL
and now that I already have all this preliminary work for ray tracing,
can you now just port it over?
And I gave it some extra hints about GLSL outputs,
because I didn't want it to do that straight away,
so that it's a little bit of a smaller step.
But very quickly, like in five minutes it had the code up and running,
and just a bit back and forth, we had a working path tracer.
Obviously noisy, because there's not an order, but it's there.
I only had DOS SR, I did that pre-AI,
and if you actually enable it, it already looked like this.
So DOS S can denoise on its own SR,
but it only works on not so noisy input,
and if you start moving around it doesn't look very good.
But the next step was to actually get DOS SR in there,
because that can actually handle the input signal of the path tracer
and denoise it properly.
I already did that for the prototype,
I made a test for doing the DOS SR.
I just had to make sure that all the outputs that it expects
can come out of the path tracer while it's path tracing,
which is a diffuse albedo texture, a specular albedo texture,
a normal aeroflins map, and a spectral hit distance.
Those are the minimal that you need.
There's some more, but these are the ones that are the most important.
I already had them, but I just needed them to be written to some textures.
So I just asked them to add the texture right to UAVs,
add some deeper views, and they did most of the work to just do it.
And also the one thing that I had to do,
so I already had DOS SR, but I needed to hook up DOS SR.
So the thing is, if you just see the streamline headers
because they're on the project, and this is not that difficult.
So in this case, I actually just used Sonet
because it's so little faster for simpler tasks,
and very quickly you can just ask it like,
hey, give me DOS SR, hook it up for me please,
whatever the path tracer is enabled in DOS SR,
and very quickly I had it up and running,
not more than 10 minutes.
Well, there's a whole bunch of other things that I had to do,
because Godot has a lot of support for their materials,
like the standard material feed has a whole bunch of properties,
so I basically went back and forth here,
but hey, this material property doesn't work,
can you implement it?
Can you do this feature?
One of the more complex ones was the lighting,
because for the lighting, that's not really,
you're making lights that don't really exist,
and they have to match what Godot does for their asterizer,
so that was a lot of back and forth,
just to get that to work.
One other thing that if you have,
in Godot normally you have frosting culling,
so you only see the objects that are in the frosting,
but obviously that's not going to work for path tracing,
because if you have the reflection,
you basically don't see it,
and it will fade out,
so I have to change the frosting culling code
so that it's more like a box around the camera,
which is a little more expensive,
but then you get proper reflections.
The other thing is,
at first I just used the depth pass from the asterizer,
but it's actually better just to write it from RT,
because then you don't have to do a depth pre-pass anymore,
and that actually saves on performance also,
because otherwise you're just doing things twice,
and it doesn't really give you anything to get a path tracer.
The one thing that I did use still
are the motion vectors from the asterization pass,
because for skinning and those kind of things,
it's easier to just use the rest of the canal,
but I'm planning to change the whole pipeline
that's fully from path tracing as well.
The other thing is that path tracers need,
it needs to know for every pixel,
what light can I go to?
And to do that,
the simplest way to do it is to use uniform light sampling,
but if you do that,
then basically if you have 64 lights,
it's then one in 64 chance that you'll hit that light.
So if you just do it the naive way,
it'll look very noisy,
and then with DLSSRR,
you'll see that basically it starts to be very,
the signal is not clear enough,
so it starts to blur and behave badly.
So to fix that,
I actually had a conversation with the LN,
about like, hey, how can we fix that?
I just tried something myself first,
and then the math wasn't quite right,
but I was like, I know the math's not quite right,
and I just wanted to ask the LN,
hey, how can I actually improve this?
And then it just came up with reservoir sampling,
and I got a lot better than it can do something like 64 lights now,
that's what I implemented.
I'm going to do something later probably
where I have actually a proper light acceleration structure,
but for now this is kind of like,
I limited it to 64 lights in the process.
And then also I had to test with multiple scenes,
because if you just test with this scene,
you're not going to hit all the edge cases.
And every time I added a new scene,
I found some more issues or more material properties
had to be hooked up,
but there's a lot of iterations.
So that's where all the other time went.
So actually the reporting of the path trace was super quick,
like literally a week I had something up and running,
but just like all these small little details that do add up,
and then you spend some time on that.
And obviously also I wanted to do some more CPU and GPU optimization.
But it's all using the same process.
Yeah, there was also some controversy very recently.
This is true.
The thing is, the phone is very easy now
to generate code.
You saw it in the beginning.
I generated 3,000 lines of code in 10 minutes.
And if you're just going to send that as a pull request,
obviously people have to review it still.
And that's one of the most difficult things now.
You have to make sure that the code that it generates
actually makes sense.
And if you don't do that,
people will just send PRs all over,
then they're just going to get overwhelmed.
So I totally understand where they're coming from.
So yeah, I want to urge everybody to make sure to review everything
thoroughly.
Understand all of it before you send it out as a PR.
There's no excuse for badly written code.
You just have to keep refining it,
keep refining it, plan with it,
do refactorings until it's high quality.
And test their control.
Only then send you a PR programmer.
Basically, just be responsible.
So a little bit of reflection.
In general, Cursor and Opus have been a great help.
It feels like working with a pair programmer,
but it has an internet in its head.
But it does behave like a genie.
Because if you ask for something,
you have to be really specific,
because otherwise you might end up with something
that you don't like.
So the more specific, the better.
And if you have examples, it's even better.
Because then it has way less chance
to deviate from that path.
And also then you know where the color is coming from,
you know the provenance of it,
and all that stuff.
Planning mode really is key.
Like just being able to iterate on those ideas.
And then you just tell a person like,
hey, I don't like this particular part about the plan.
Or I just go to the end of the file,
start writing some things or give us some ideas.
Usually you find all the problems
before actually it starts implementing your ideas.
And it makes the code a lot better
and just the process a lot smoother.
A few things like Opus 4.6 is out.
Not that long, but the ideas I got from it,
it's a little more careful before answering.
It kind of looks through your code a little bit better
and tries to find all the edge cases
before actually starting the work.
So in general it just copes the vague problems better.
But you still have to be quite specific
to get the most out of it.
There's also some other models.
I keep coming back to different models,
but for graphics my advice is still
just to stay with instrument models
because by far they work best.
And now with Cursor,
it actually starts sometimes on sub-agents
and then those use Composer 1.
Sometimes if you just want to ask a question
about the code base,
like hey, how does this particular feature work?
You don't need to think super hard about that.
You just want it to find whatever you're looking for.
So then I actually recommend to use
something like Composer 1 or like a faster model
because then it increases the loss theorem.
A little bit about my setup.
It's not very complex.
The most important one is Clang D
because Clang D makes sure that it gets the linter.
And with the linter,
because Clang D is the actual compiler,
all the linter errors are actual errors.
So if you have Clang D on there
and it's set up the right way,
then you basically get,
you don't have to get into this loop
where it generates the code
and it makes some mistakes
and then it has to compile
and then you have to wait for it
and then do that loop
and then go back and forth.
Now once it generates the code,
it immediately sees,
okay, I made a mistake here
and immediately rectifies the problem.
So it just helps in general.
It makes the iteration speed a lot faster.
And yeah, that saves you valuable time.
And then the good thing,
we could all already have
CompactMask JSON.
So I didn't have to do much for this.
I just had to set up Clang D
to make sure that it's all working.
And you can notice it
because if you're just writing some manual code,
if your IntelliSense is not working properly,
that means Clang D is not working.
I'm not using any complex cursor rules.
These are the ones that I have.
It's be inquisitive.
If I don't give you enough context
to do a proper job,
you have any questions.
And also if I can give you any problems
that would result in a bad code base,
please, please give me feedback.
Like I wanted to actually push back
against my bad ideas.
And then also an important one is keep it dry.
Because keep it dry then it will start looking
to your code base more
and actually try to find code that already exists
instead of like,
I'm going to just make this function like three times.
And actually sometimes when I see it actually generate
some bad code,
I just tell it like,
hey, keep it dry.
And immediately it will start looking for the duplication
and fixing all those issues.
And then there's some other ones.
But the thing with these rules,
it's hard to actually know
that they're making a big advantage.
Sometimes I kind of see it back in the comments
that it's referring to these.
But yeah,
these are kind of like mantras.
Like your values may vary,
but what I have found is that
you should probably keep it short
because if you put too many rules in there,
then you're just wasting your context
and you want to keep your context
for the actual code.
Mixing models can be a benefit
because,
well, here you can see my usage
for the whole code project.
Coaster has some cool statistics.
I use a whole bunch of models here,
but my main ones were Sonet and Opus,
as you can see.
But yeah,
mixing can be useful
because it gives you faster iteration speed.
Sometimes if you just have a repetitive thing
that it needs to quickly go through,
then just going to like a
smaller model helps
because it just answers four times faster.
And,
well,
in total,
like over all this time,
I think the total cost was $6, $84,
but I also did some other stuff,
so let's say $500.
There's also Max mode,
and I actually didn't use it that much
because Max mode will increase the context window
to about a million tokens
if you don't use these 200k tokens.
And sometimes you can use it,
but I recommend not to do it too much
because it just wastes a lot of money.
And especially if you use this planning mode,
the planning mode makes sure
that it doesn't need that much content
because you already chucked it up into pieces
and then you don't need all this context
to actually fit the problem
because if you have like a one-minute context
it also gets a lot slower
because the models just have to do a lot more work
just to get to the next level.
So these are the results.
This is Godot without any path-facing
with their own pipeline,
all the features enabled.
And this is what path-facing enabled.
You can see the performance on top.
It's about 400 FPS without path-facing.
I think this was running at about
like DSS performance on the 1440p,
but on widescreen.
With path-tracing we're getting about 212,
and this is without any frame jam,
so it's actually really, really fast.
And this was on the 5080p.
This is a, I look for a place
where you can really notice the difference.
And you can see here, like,
shadow resolution is not very high.
Like, if you want to get that to look right,
you have to probably get like a 16K shadow map
or maybe even higher
because there's no virtual shadow mapping in Godot.
You can also see there's some light bleeding, right?
Through the walls and all that stuff.
So this is what it looks like with path-facing.
500 FPS versus 300, so still good enough.
This is a scene that I,
from the Korea Culture Information Service Agency.
And it's got a lot of polygons.
It's got, I think, about 120 million polygons.
And the interesting part is actually,
this is with the rasterizer.
And it runs 82 FPS on the 5090.
But with the path-tracer,
we're running 160 FPS.
So it's actually faster.
And this is LB0.
So path-tracers do a lot better with geometric detail.
They scale less well with resolution,
but they scale very well with final.
So you need to,
it's a lot less important, usually,
with path-tracing.
If you have an optimized scene,
the scene actually has some LBs,
but I didn't use them in this case.
But yeah, it can actually be a benefit,
the path-tracing.
And you can see the difference, right?
You can see the reflections,
because it's like FDFTI,
it's like with blot sheeting on the bottom.
But with the path-tracing,
you get a nice clear reflection.
And also you can see the flowers on the left,
for example.
Like, the shadow resolution doesn't have a chance
to just get any decent result there.
And it's not really bleeding the lighting,
because the probe is not big enough there.
But with path-tracing,
you get a pretty nice result.
And then also the shadows.
You can see the shadows, for example.
Actually, you start noticing
that some of the geometry is floating.
Which you don't see if you don't have that, right?
This is the shadow resolution.
I don't know.
This is another scene.
This is completely lit by emissives.
And this is with the STFTI system,
SSI and the basically standard real-time pipeline.
This is with their baked-boxed GI system.
So it looks not really a little better.
But the problem with this is
you can't really change the scenes.
Right?
If you stand and start deleting some of those stripes,
or you want to give it a different color,
it'll still show you then the specular reflections
of the things that don't exist anymore.
And the baked-boxed GI needs,
I think, quite significant amount of VRAM.
So you have to then keep your levels small.
Well, with path tracing,
it pretty much just works.
You get very nice reflections of everything,
and you can change everything on the fly,
and it'll just handle it.
And it's also extremely fast.
Like here, it's 450 FPS,
and I'm actually doing four samples per pixel.
So it's doing, for every pixel,
it's shooting about 16 rays.
If you think about it,
it's an incredible amount of rays that are being shot here,
and it just churns through it no problem.
Because it's like a smaller space,
you kind of start playing around with the sample count,
and the more samples you give it,
the more stable result the DLSS has,
and it has to guess less,
and it just gets a better result.
So, in conclusion,
AI coding systems are here,
and they do work for graphics development nowadays.
And that includes private code.
Like, you can use it on your own engine.
You don't have to ship it out,
or think like,
oh, this is only going to work for open source games.
No, it works on pretty much any code base
that you want to work on.
It doesn't require some significant hand-holding.
It's not as effective as it is for websites or that kind of stuff,
but they are improving rapidly,
and I wouldn't ignore them.
But it's still critical that you need to understand what you're building,
because otherwise it's hard to tell what the AI is doing is correct.
And then I showed here a couple of examples of debugging, merging,
implementing new features with like the planning, shoot holes,
and an execute strategy that I've been using a lot.
And, yeah, we're still figuring out more use cases as we go.
This is basically the end of the path phase that I made.
It's 10,000 lines of code that were added to the project.
I committed it four hours ago,
so if you go through this link,
you can check out what code that we generated,
and then I added a lot of new plus.
I'll still be iterating on it.
Yeah, and please give it a try.
There's some things that I'm going to do after this.
This is not in there except for the custom geocell shading.
I actually did that one last week.
And you can see some reflections here.
Basically, you have a geocell shader that you can set per object,
and then you can just write your geocell shader into fragment shader,
and you don't want to manually translate it to work in the raytracing pipeline.
So it's a very easy way.
Basically, if you have very custom materials,
and you don't want to use the standard materials,
you can just use them as is.
It's a rest driver,
and it'll automatically translate it to binder structuring,
and even the material brass work,
you can basically go through,
and just make a new brass.
And, yeah.
There's a whole bunch of other features that I still want to do.
We have a whole bunch of extra technologies
that we made at NVIDIA
that can basically improve the signal.
Because, like I said, if you just shoot random rays,
if you don't have the input data,
it'll start to get noisy, and the result looks bad.
So, usually, to alleviate all those problems,
we have all these technologies,
like RTXDI, or Shard,
or Opacity MicroMaps,
that basically improves the performance
if you have a lot of alpha surfaces.
We have shader execution reordering
that will, if you have a lot of materials like this,
that it will basically is able to sort the rays,
and make it also a lot faster.
There's one thing that I still have to do
with DLSS spectral motion vectors.
That will improve if you move around the scene very quickly.
But, that's more like a minor feature.
Petition TLAS to CLAS.
There's going to be a talk tomorrow
from Martin Stitch and Carmelo.
If you're interested in that,
that's going to be a very interesting one,
because that will allow us to...
Right now, if you have, like,
10 bit of a visual visual scenes,
it takes about 6-7 milliseconds.
But, with this...
Petition TLAS CLAS,
we can probably bring it down to, like,
a half millisecond.
And, that's one of the things that I want to implement soon.
CLAS is going to be things like
mega geometry, like nanite style rendering,
and VKX Descriptor Heap.
It just came out, I think, three weeks ago.
This is very exciting also,
because it's...
Now, finally, we have a unified binding model
between DirectX 12 and Balkan.
So, that allows me to do the bindless texturing
unified way,
because we still have to port all this stuff
also to DirectX 12,
because Balkan has a...
Or, Godot has a DirectX 12 render,
and we want to make sure
that it's already worked,
also works there,
and also met it.
One of the main things missing, still,
is vertex animations,
because those are
one of the weaker points for ray tracing,
because you have to rebuild the VGLAS
over and over again.
There's a whole bunch of strategies
that we came up with
to improve that.
But, yeah,
that's one of the major ones
that I'm going to do next.
And, transparencies and volumetrics
will need to be done.
And, of course, more optimization.
I'd like to acknowledge the Godot team
and all the contributors.
These are the people I mainly interact with,
and then all the people from NVIDIA
that made this happen.
And, you can, if you want to talk to me,
you can find me on, like, the Doe chat.
Like, my username there is lsikismb.
And, you can also reach me at lsikismb.com
if you have any questions.
I'd love to work with some people
if they have, like, interesting scenes
or, like, they want to try this out
and they want to, kind of, like, get involved.
Just send me a message
on Chat the Doe Engine, preferably,
or send me an email.
And, yeah, that's the end of my talk.
All right, any questions?
That was an amazing slideshow.
This is not recorded, so there's not...
Oh.
That was a really great presentation.
It's not recorded in the vault.
Do you have a copy of the slideshow?
Yeah, I can upload it.
I'll make sure that on the GitHub repo
I'll put a link to the slides there.
Oh, that would be fantastic.
Thank you so much.
You're welcome.
Is this going to be mainline in the Godot?
Yeah, it's going to be fully MIT.
The other technologies,
maybe we'll have to figure it out a little bit
and we'll make a special license for it
or maybe we'll make a plug-in.
But, yeah, we're going to put all the technologies
in there if we can.
Maybe it's an extension with the Godot asset store.
But, all this work is fully MIT.
You can also use it for your engine.
So if you want to basically make a try this,
you can take out Godot
and use that as your example
to put it in your own power phase.
Okay.
I realize you're from India.
Yeah?
Does this work on anyone else's hardware?
Yeah, let's slide here.
NRD is something I need to add.
That's basically the denoiser for,
that works on AMD and Intel.
I will add it.
And then you, yeah,
it will also work on other vendors.
And maybe at some point also we'll do more like RT light
because that might be nice for things like this
for, for, for, for, for, uh, electric parts.
Right.
But, um, yeah, we can do something like RT AO
or use reflections or something like that, right?
That you, you can replace the SS AO
or the, uh, reflection.
And are you working on Windows?
Does it work on other OS's in its current state?
Uh, the, the REST Rizer, yes.
Uh, the DLSS RR, uh, I think for Streamline
we don't have a Linux native version yet.
It will work if you do it through the emulation layer,
I think, of Proton.
Because we have some hoops that specially can basically
go into Streamline and then work with the, with the,
with the driver to basically get DLSS RR.
But yeah, I do want to internally push for a fully,
full Linux version.
So, uh, yeah.
Stay tuned for that.
And I'm sure it's a conversation that has to be
it's happened with, uh, uh, WCOR
to get it working on consoles.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, NRD, NRD actually should work in consoles.
Okay.
Because that's totally, yeah,
it's just all shared calls is there.
It's, it's not a deep learning based one.
But the DLSS R is, is deep learning based.
So that one, yeah, it really requires, uh,
and be a GPU.
Hi.
Um, I'm interested to hear more about,
uh, examples.
You said examples are really powerful to like tell the LLM,
like how to do something.
Are you, are you talking about like,
like a markdown file that kind of explains?
It could be, yeah.
Yeah.
If you, if you don't have anything,
then basically the plan is going to be your example, right?
But if you have an actual example,
like maybe some source code or a paper or something like that,
you can put that in the, in the, in the, in the tree,
that you can use that as an example.
And then you can just basically give it a target prompt,
like, hey, transfer this to this,
or make something based on that.
So that was just, uh, we did, uh,
I actually tried to, uh, implement that,
while there was no notion in the models, right?
But there was already some documentation.
So just put the documentation in the folder,
and then it could, from that documentation,
generate the whole, uh, implementation.
So, yeah.
Any, any kind of sources that you can find,
um, put it in there,
and it'll help the model to, to get to a better answer.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Uh, thank you for the, for the talk.
Um, so, uh, seeing that you're using cursor,
a cursor agent to generate the code,
and then you're doing the verification,
kind of manually in Kotob.
Um, in, in like, web development,
cursor can also, you know, load the browser
right there in cursor.
It can check the console, and it comes.
Yeah, yeah.
I think that's, I think that's the next steps,
and especially for, I've been thinking about that a lot,
because it's like, for graphics development,
I, I, I'm still in the loop,
basically find all the edge cases, right?
I have to fly around the scene,
I have to find the edge cases,
and then maybe I'll make screenshots,
put it in the, in the thing,
and I say, hey, there's an issue here,
can you help me figure out where,
where in the code I need to loop?
Or like, can you figure it out in your own?
Um, if we can kind of close that loop,
where maybe we have some MCP or something,
that, that can basically tell cursor,
or, you could all,
like, hey, go, put the camera here,
put the camera here,
make a screenshot here.
Or, uh, give me the render draw.
Right?
It, it, it, it, it will probably get even more powerful.
It can automatically debug the issues.
There was a talk yesterday by Tencent,
where they kind of be dug in a real engine.
Ah!
So, we had an agent that would take a screenshot,
and then use a depth perception model,
to kind of guesstimate where things are placed,
and fit that back in.
So, if you release tools like that,
that would be quite interesting.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, that's going to be for next year, maybe.
Alright, no more questions?
Alright, no more questions?
