of the session's speaker, Bin Shue and Zha-Sing Zhang.
And I will now leave the stage to speakers. Thank you.
Thank you.
We will also show you how we brought them to life.
Lyskid Studios is a leading role in development between across many countries.
Founded in 2008, Lyskid Studios,
with our teams across multiple platforms
and the status of our 4K and Western visitors.
Lyskid Studios made us passionate players for Taiwan,
to advance the art and the science of BNP.
Lyskid Studios to create stories
related to today and advanced technologies.
Today, I will cover five main areas.
Overview of BNP.
Relation of BNP.
What's great application of BNP.
The data and ROI of BNP.
The future outlook for BNP.
I hope you find this helpful.
First, these people need to offer a game
for both such as PNP,
Lyskid Studios,
Dismash,
and EGCM,
Daylight,
etc.
This insurance will be used for all types of players.
However, we've noticed that shooting games are becoming more social.
Players aren't just focused on the issue anymore.
They now value teamwork and social interaction much more during the game.
But the competitive and nature of online YouTube can be a high barrier.
This is especially true for players who are new to the game,
or those who prefer a lower pressure social environment.
Secondly, we don't want to leave this large group of players behind,
because they are a right part of our community.
It's not that they don't want to support us.
There is just evidence in the game yet.
So, we face a challenge.
How do we treat players with the same type of depth and social satisfaction as a real team?
Traditionally, we relied on optimizing marketing
and creating a trend here in the environment.
The AI gave us a new solution.
It allows us to offer full gameplay and social interaction with much less pressure.
This gives us a stable emotional connection and a strong AI definition.
This is our AI teammate,
an AI true to the real player experience.
We started with three key decisions.
First, we defined an AI tactical partner from the ground up.
Our team is integrated into our business team.
We call it the biggest wave.
Second, we defined the person,
a teammate who follows others,
past that journey,
and provides a true competition of companionship.
Third, we studied goals,
an excellent combat,
smart tactic,
and a really effective friendly world.
Just like a human.
Powered by geocadence and enhanced AI voice,
our goal is to enrich solar time,
reduce solar pressure,
and meet every player's social needs.
To bring this grand vision to life,
we set three goals across three pieces,
and ultimately released three versions to test with our players.
For this one, our goal was to create a partner that is both skilled and lifelike,
skilled in how they play the game,
and the lifelike is how they play.
For phase two, we give the AI memory.
By combining the memory with the company sheet,
we use a real emotion in motion of fun,
treating the player and their AI.
For phase three, we allow players to shape their own inclusive AI partners.
This creates a deep personal life experience for everyone.
We test every person with tens of millions of peacekeepers and if they are.
Through this journey,
we transformed the AI voice from just a smart tool into a true companion.
This one was our foundation.
By combining LBMs with reinforcement learning bots,
we built the core system for this way.
In this mode, players choose one AI image from three options,
one virtual character and two based on learning people.
They then enter a no match against other players who also have AI partners.
players.
There is a learning curve.
This AI partner completely understands the game and the human of our player's sound.
Players can use intellectual voice to talk to the AI pros in motion of support and execute frequently attacking.
Each AI also has that type of capability with their own voice type and backstory.
In the end, we also adapted like creating a normal game with real human teammates.
In phase two, our goal was to make the AI feel even more human and provide real computer sheets.
We focused on two main updates.
First, we gave the AI memory.
The AI now remembers past matches and conversations.
For example, you might say,
What?
What?
We had a great win here last time.
How was that moving towards yesterday?
Or, I have an apple.
I know so few.
The more play and chat, the deeper the sound comes.
Second, we turned the building possible into real reality.
We partnered with our marketing team and the artist, Hua Xun, and the podcast team to create our first
software.
The variety AI department used to use the type story, voice, and the best style.
Players can now become with their idols and the 25 as the convention.
Finally, we broke down the things and problems between humans and AI.
You can add AI partners to go to the list and invite them to games.
You can even chat with them on our official component app, this kind.
They act exactly like real human friends.
In phase three, we focused on key personalization.
We wanted every AI partner to be completely unique.
So, we have a dynamic trade system and a bonding system.
With dynamic space, the AI's core personality and technology stays the same.
But as you play and chat, you share their preferences.
For example, your AI might learn to love watermelon, while someone else prefers bananas.
Everyone gets a true one of your 10 partner.
The bonding system simulates real human relationships.
You grow from strangers to couple friends to close roommates.
As you get closer, the conversation topics and the AI's power avoids the change.
It feels incredible and real.
Also, in this version, players can find AI using opportunities from their own and mentor.
Of course, throughout all three phases, we worked hard to keep these AI interactions safe and compliant.
It was a massive challenge.
Due to the time limits, I won't dive into the technical details of compliance today.
As we continue to test and refine the experience, we realized that we had to do something much bigger.
It gave us more than just a new mode and fresh source of trees.
Most importantly, we helped us to build a review of the algorithm plus AI core framework.
It proved that there is quite a working path to combine AI with core data planning.
Due to this success, we kept experiencing.
Unfortunately, we have since introduced more AI-driven features, including a smartphone board,
AI-PC-support-seeing modes, and temporary AI-diprover features.
First up is the smartphone board.
Our designers created a fantastic board for the game.
But initially, we could only punctuate the market now.
We could realize that this theater production can be natural.
So, they integrated the AI-diprover elements.
Now, just like a real working tool, we can plan to OS and follow the order perfectly.
We can autonomously search for items by the landscape and even the five inmates.
Since it released, they are there and due.
This left-left head involves, Pilbert and Broom.
We added to most of our social spaces.
What's in pitchers have tout pu de studio company?
We released a new highly popular theme mode every update.
But as these modes get more complex, the learning curve is different.
This became a real value for players.
Traditional tutorials are costly to build for every new feature, and the policy is very boring.
So we use AI to save our world.
We created a charming magical named Holy God.
Powered by MLMs and dictating the knowledge that answers their questions in real time.
Players can simply ask what it is, how to use it.
We cannot find new items.
It even explains new mechanics automatically as they happen in the game.
Of course, stocking is a simple tutorial for using our style.
So we gave the Holy God a real-time perception and feedback system.
Similarly put, it watches everything you use during a match.
It will get a heel, get a heel down, or find a top target.
The Holy God loads.
It then uses aliens to generate an instance.
Not likely actions to use words, lines, and animations.
It genuinely helps you out and provides real emotional support.
Because it is both helpful and incredibly fun.
The Holy God was an instant with these are our players.
Next is added over.
We use this to solve a very common problem.
When a player suddenly has to step away, we want to keep the theme game completely and interrupt you.
The traditional outplay just hands your character to a platform.
But with our AI controller, you hand your character over to your teammates.
Once activated, your character follows your squad's voice commands.
This keeps the team moving and fighting like one.
It replaces your thoughts with a flexible safety event for the whole team.
So, those are our key breakthrough in bringing AI to the people's needs.
Today, LWMs are deeply integrated across the game.
In the first game, we have gathered incredible experience and the player's feedback,
giving us a strong foundation for the future.
This is when mode and other AI athletes have achieved success.
The scale is N320.
So far, over 110 million players have experienced the game.
On VPNs reached over 17.7 million active players.
What policy will completely mark out our GPU capacity?
If we had more servers, those numbers will be even higher.
Beyond player terms, our engagement data proves our original mission.
players genuinely want to organize the AI.
In an average match, a player has 70 competition firms with their AI partners.
Even better.
In 74.7% of players, players turn around their mic to talk.
To put that in perspective.
To put that in perspective, historically, our highest mic to usage was in new mode, at 71.57%.
Two players used to be our most adopting mode.
But there is a way to keep that light report.
The most players have a massive desire to communicate with their AI.
We truly delivered under the need for social connection.
We also analyze the user and attribute our participating players.
Normally, sure, solo players in the top 59% of our entire players play player face.
But in various ways, just three versions of integration may jump to an incredible 76 point percent.
Think about that.
A mode built in parallel around the communication affected our unique social players to improve our initial concern.
Solo players who want to stabilize their needs just weren't met.
Look at this next class.
For these not-good-assomers and activities users, their problem matches the fact that city victims are trying this mode.
The data is clear.
AI teammates are a massive hit with solo players.
And they successfully develop engagement for our audience to reach an audience.
Our AI exploration in this database is already showing great results.
But we were just getting started.
We want the entities to be true partners.
Here's the next step.
What impacts virtual conversations?
We are moving past simple projects.
The AI can handle interruptions and those going to stay silent.
If emotional, emotional business, it won't just look at facts.
They will understand their feelings.
You will hear joy, urgency, or the woman in this voice.
And give mother a position.
The AI large ground will ask them to understand their beliefs.
Offering proactive care and practical support.
Automatically, we want to create a different connection between various and AI.
We are also building a strategy for the brain by combining AI elements with the reinforcement and super wide learning.
learning.
This gives our AI real-time awareness and teaching, making our 40 double and so much the level of the situation of our various.
The AI greatly increased class, class, and they must learn from any kind of context by privacy.
Explained more tactical decision logic.
Building a chain of sword architecture.
The AI uses its voice and things to explain why it makes a move.
No more black force AI.
If tactical enablement and synergy, we are building AI with different play styles, spot coordination, and motion.
With real-time planning, the AI gives human time and strategy to achieve.
Everything we do is about breaking and covering things to deliver a brand new experience for our players.
At the same time, we are expanding our AI capabilities across multiple dimensions.
We will keep exploring both the threads and objects of these applications.
Ensure with this key character.
Anyway, it remains tied to the foreground of AI in gaming.
For example, we are breaking and launching one new AI character to the players.
Finally, we are bringing UTC to our AI network.
We want to empower our players to design and create their very own AI companies.
At this, we are truly thrilled to welcome our brand ambassador, Xi Wei-Tien.
Xi will enjoy the greatest with all stars as champions.
In a massive update, characters like Xiao-Tien and Xiao-Tien will be powered by the threat experience, emotional TPS,
what reflects conversation from the deep memory process.
They will deliver much smarter in new productions and new combinations.
We can't wait for you to find out.
When it comes to learning their thoughts, that's all from me today.
Thank you so much for your time.
Please welcome my colleague, Xia-Tien for the next chair.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I'm here for my .
I'm going to give you .
So my name is Jia-Sing.
I'm a senior researcher for my .
I'm based in London, UK.
And today, I'll introduce the mentioned AI component system, the piece of paper in the UK.
So this is my offline.
But first, I'm going to give you a brief introduction of our motivation for this AI component system.
And then I'll talk about five aspects, which are the key technology of our AI component.
So how we understand the user solution in the practice scenario.
And the language and behavior .
And also the TDS model.
And .
And in the last, I will introduce our future .
So I'm going to talk about the traditional target and why we do this.
So now .
It's everywhere.
It's not experimental.
It's from the .
It's from the .
It's from the .
And to the .
And to the .
In finance, .
Or .
.
.
.
.
And even .
.
.
.
.
So one way to do that is human life.
Not only just functional but emotionally meaningful.
So we define our four layers.
And behavior.
It acts and .
And language .
It talks naturally and naturally.
And speech .
And understanding and .
And nurturing .
It can place long-term emotional goals.
So together, this makes our AI not just a bot, but a component.
So definitely, most of the AI are being used in game, but most of them are a system.
Some are putting down my eyes.
But ours is a component, and it plays with you, it talks with you, it remembers you, and it goes with you.
And that is a difference.
So in the technical level, our AI system is used on the standard AI staff,
that was content technology that we gave in the AI staff, electric models, and TDS.
And these components, these games of AI, all of our core capabilities.
And in fact, game outstanding, engineering control, nature language interaction, and humanized speech.
So from this perspective, this translates very closely into very intuitive experiences.
And the AI component, the UI instruction, the AI can engage your passive chat,
and initialize the active chat, and also it can contain a long-term memory.
So based on these capabilities, our AI compiling can interact as a client with the player's outside match,
and also we have the machine system.
So through the game's interactions, there can increase the tendency of AI mode with their AI component.
Online personalized apps, and there is stronger emotional communication with their AI component.
So technically, it is an AI system.
While I experience it, it is a nice, a growing component.
So I'm going to show you a short bagel to let you understand the different the way that I just mentioned.
And let me see that.
our
踏著懷疼的海浪 聽見召喚的信號牆 跟我去勝利的方向
還可以嗎?
我們去找找車子
我去找找再見
等我
我找到車了
我們去軍事基地吧
我們去軍事基地吧
好的 立刻出發
加速 加速
好的 開啟加速模式
開萬點 開萬點 開萬點
開萬點 開萬點 開萬點
好的 我們去送
三次來 三次來 三次來
行 我在這邊下來
阿姨是在那牆頭
我這好有 我來拿個牆
抗扁的地方
你也太帥了吧
老師們倆
我要 滿燈開萬點
不然 九次去將這種為 evitar
來 concur
來這把牆鼻子
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.

Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
,
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay.
Okay.
Thank you.
