which is a very lucky potential back to the world of games today.
So these are all people who deeply understand the creative nature of making games,
so they're not coming with an outsider perspective,
but they also have reached into the world of tech.
So without further ado, please welcome to the stage, Professor Mark.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We are an extraordinary platform and everything we talk about is hip-based business.
Are we really still a hit base?
Because if you look up for the last few years,
I think there's a fundamental problem,
which is that we're actually not speaking the same language
as the people we're asking the most.
And I would say, this is just a kind of thing about it,
which means it's quite a lot.
I think we still think we're asking patrons.
If we want a patron to invest in that,
beautiful idea, come and get a wonderful game,
isn't it going to be amazing?
And if you're talking to an investor who's a businessman,
we should be pitching a business.
Heaven forbid.
So what is it that gains him?
Gains him to talk about creativity.
Investors need to talk about predictability.
We need to start focusing on what actually matters.
And this is the thing that we've really been hit by
when we're dealing with SaaS IT investors.
It's not just game features.
We've actually had to up our game.
The things that we thought that we're good at is work.
We need to be talking about repeatable processes.
We need to be talking about predictable revenue.
We need to be talking about scandals.
We're building, sustain businesses.
We're building a lot of people.
We need to be talking about people.
We're building a lot of people in the world.
We're building a lot of people in the world.
So I think we need to start refragging what we're doing with them.
And if you could talk about getting our own positive,
and that's not necessarily bad.
And there's a lot of them in that we're dealing with them.
We still want to know what the vision is.
But if we don't talk about what a repeatable project is,
we're not going to get that.
How do we do that?
We use data.
We show IT, so the actual things that people care about, we need real evidence.
And as much as I, when I'm talking about game design, a lot of the things I talk about when you're validating a game,
I've been on TV talk about the application stuff a lot.
I talk about your CVI, your day one retention, your day seven retention,
which is all good data and really important to the point of view of understanding if you're on the right one.
That's not true.
Proof is someone gives you money.
And that sounds crude and terrible, and if you are making a game, you don't necessarily just think about that.
And you can't generate revenue just by putting more revenue.
You have to focus on the game and retention and revenue.
But you're not talking to your player, you're talking to an investor.
They need proof that you're the team who can do it.
You're the team that understands the market.
You're the team that can actually deliver.
How do we talk about predictable revenue?
Well, predictable revenue itself, we make the money for a rate.
What about next month?
What about next month?
What about next month?
What about next month?
What about next month?
If you're going to be invested in, we need to understand when your business model is at our level.
Now, anyone who knows about my or no other bit except my box.
It doesn't just have to be a my box based game.
I'll actually hold you every game of my box.
My own business.
If you're a developer, you're probably not going to be just doing one game.
Which means you want your community to stay with them by the next game.
Even if you've got paid up for a game, if you're not working like a Lidox game to manage that game,
you haven't built a community anymore.
So we've all got to fit in the same logic and structure with regards to our game business model.
But Lidox is my big word in the box to describe a big thing.
How are we building sustainable communities that want to keep playing our games,
want to keep investing in us as a big network?
If you can't communicate that to an investor, why should they be able to do this?
And scalable systems, scalable.
We've got to come back to that community thing.
Our superpower is community.
Our superpower is our audience.
Have you proved that audience is loyal to you?
Quite a lot of games have not built brands around their companies
that are brands without single generally.
If that's not transparent for the next game,
you've just lost all of that.
So we're going to deliver our message to our investors by thinking about data,
thinking about IT, thinking about the same system,
thinking about what our equivalent of a Lidox forever is.
And when we can communicate that succinctly around the vision,
that's what we're doing.
We are the biggest form of digital authentication on the planet.
Let's start acting around here.
Thank you.
Okay, great stuff.
Thank you very much, Oscar.
I like that connection between the audience and the investor.
And I think we're going to get a little bit more time now from John Brennan.
Thank you very much, Paul.
Thanks for putting this panel together.
We actually first met at GDC,
and one of the earliest humble bundles that ever happened
was the humble, frozen, silent bundle.
So it's really fun to see Paul in the weekend.
So who am I?
So in 2008, I joined Friends to run our bootstraps indie studios
called World Fire Games.
That led me on a journey to eventually co-founding Humble Bundle,
which is a distribution platform.
That platform raised money from Sequoia Capital.
So I got the experience of raising a Series A from Silicon Valley,
and we also ran a publishing business there.
On top of that, a lot of the people in the ABC
decided to band together and form the Indie Fund.
So I've been a member of that since 2013.
And then most recently, after selling Humble Bundle
and completing that journey,
my wife and I decided to co-found Elbow Grease Games
to be a Y Combinator for video games.
So that's my very perspective,
and I want to just try to quickly fly across what I think I know
and impart whatever wisdom might change to you
if you're trying to get a game funded.
But the reality is the experts are often wrong.
And now at one of those times, you know,
the signs of GDC say change the game.
The industry's definitely in a time of change.
And so my past wisdom, if you want to get you so far,
I think we're in a moment where small creative teams
can write your own playbook and change it up.
But here's the reality.
I want to scare you a little bit and start off the talk.
If you're trying to fundraise in 2026, this is what's going on.
The people in this room, right,
they believe in something strongly enough
that they're going to risk a lot to go do something hard.
And we're basically in the worst funding situation
we've been in the past six years.
So the pandemic would have been the easiest time.
I'm of two minds about that.
Because one, it's too easy to get capital.
A lot of market inefficiencies can happen.
So even though people look like they were fundraising successfully,
some of those were cursed opportunities in disguise
because the valuations were wrong.
And they didn't build entities with enough opportunity
to survive the company which is.
But to ground any conversation for fundraising,
it's good to know what kind of environment you're getting into.
And this is the kind of stuff that investors or publishers
might be looking at to size up an opportunity to talk about.
I recommend strongly everybody check out Matthew Ball's 2026 report.
It just dropped right before GDC.
The top line notes are the pie is growing.
The whole industry grew about 7% depending on how you calculated,
which is good.
We hit a new all-time record of $195 billion spent on content.
So that's awesome.
But criticisms are that essentially social media and short form video
are crowding into entertainment consumption on video games.
And there's a lot of games on Steam.
20,000 of them launched last year.
And, of course, we've come out of the low interest rate era,
which is a boring economic reality.
But it basically means money costs more.
And if you just park your money in a bank, you can get a return from it.
So every investor might be thinking, why do I take a return from the building
when I'm just leaving the bank and get 4% interest or more?
So that's what we're dealing with here.
How you get funded is you tell a good story.
So when we go through the pillars, I think of what make a good story
in an order that I've chosen for a logical reason.
Bootstrapping is the first type of method for funding your studio.
Of course, it means funding it yourself.
And I think if you can build a good story and you believe it
and investors believe it, they will want to invest in you.
But the idea is if you can't get funding, what are you going to do about it?
Are you going to quit?
Or are you going to find another way to make sure?
So this is Sean Connery from The Intouchables.
And Kevin Costner is just told he wants to go out there off the phone.
And Sean Connery is like, well, that's great.
But what are you prepared to do?
You can say that.
But unless you're willing to go all the way, it's not going to work.
So you want to have a bootstrapping story that you can tell,
like your plan C.
I can't get funding.
I'm going to ship this game anyway.
And I have a plan for that.
That will help you with a project funding conversation.
So when you talk to a publisher,
you're trying to sell them the game.
And a good game, I'm kind of plagiarizing it from Mitch Lasky,
who's a lot of investing in video games,
including into Riot Games,
who makes League of Legends.
But he says you want innovation content
and innovation distribution.
And a lot of people are innovating the content,
but they don't always think about, okay,
how am I going to get out there and print gamers
and really get this thing purchased by people.
That's where the government needs to go.
So you have to be able to get a hook.
You've been able to pop out.
And you have to have a clear audience in mind
that you think is underserved
or you can do something better
that no one else has done before.
And innovation can be a way to rise above the noise
and get your self-distribution.
But a lot of, let's say the egg portfolio,
a lot of companies inside of egg are working on
using generated content ecosystems
and ways that the crowd can easily share things
with each other and maybe give the game
of a viral coefficient on social media.
So this is the hardest story to tell.
This is the one for equity funding.
The classic Silicon Valley theory there is, okay,
so they believe that you have boots,
you're not going to fall back
and that your game is going to be awesome.
Why isn't the company going to grow,
be valuable and make the money?
And this is kind of a hardest story to tell
because in addition to creating an awesome game,
you have to sell them on the team
and the product and the studio
and that that company itself,
you have to be valued as the company is going to grow.
And so that's the one that I think investors
and entrepreneurs were not speaking the same language
that you were saying,
that they were telling each other stories
that were a little bit performative
and didn't have that firm, fundamental value
for creating lasting entities that were worthy of investment.
And investors are sometimes, they were during a pandemic,
they were pressuring entrepreneurs to over spend, over hire,
and I think they were in a lack of discipline on both fronts.
So, to boil it down, this is the, you know, in the game of DMT,
we do a roll of the dice to see if you're going to succeed or fail.
This is the skill check that's going on in the background.
People are not going to believe that your game is going to work.
That's their default setting.
In the very beginning, all you have is storytelling.
You'll have no proof.
You don't have a cool image.
You don't have a cool GIF.
But if you get something trending on social media,
they'll say, oh, maybe this is a little less risky.
If you can build a prototype, they'll say, oh, cool,
I kind of know where the game moves are.
And if you, you know, and you march along with your time,
you should be able to tell a better story,
improve more points about why your game is going to work.
And as you do that, you can actually generate a promo
if you're missing out for a publisher or a VC.
And in theory, if you're doing your job,
they should be getting more afraid of missing out over time,
and eventually they will realize that the risk of working with you is small
compared to the risk of missing out.
And that's how you get your game funded.
You can be clever about who you talk to.
Again, you want to sell the best game you can to a publisher.
You want to make sure you tell your true company vision to the VC or equity investor.
I sometimes think the best people that talk to are successful game developers
because unlike VCs, they actually know the market inside and out.
So they will have maybe, what we see the look at as too risky,
somebody who's an insider in the space may have a background that's like,
oh, I get what you're doing.
So I think the risk of failure is actually much lower,
and now you can actually get them to invest.
So you should always be thinking about this.
I also like keeping track of the narratives that are being
on the internet.
And I mentioned before Matthew Ball is kind of a cognitist or a realist
about the state of the industry.
Owen Mahoney, if you follow his blog, is very much an optimist.
He says the industry is just about the triple.
He launched a blog post just before CBC talking about forever games
and how he was thinking about BARC when MBARC
.
It looked a little hard and crazy at the time, maybe,
but it actually turned out really, really well.
And then, of course, I follow Paul's blog.
He just had a cool post about optimism where you can only look at the numbers so much.
At some point, it's like Luke, you've got to turn off the card game computer
and just use the force and take your shot.
So I believe in that, too.
If we didn't have optimism, none of us would be here.
But that's a quick fly by every light.
And L3's games exist to try to help connect with the world of capital
to talented entrepreneurs.
We've got 13 core core companies, and we're definitely thinking about ways
to scale women up to this in the future.
So if you want to hear more about that, you can find me on LinkedIn
or in the Q&A session.
We're happy to talk.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much for the nice comments and for that incredibly insightful talk.
So much about me packed into the 10 minutes.
I'm very excited.
So next up, we have Gina.
I think you'll have to work with Gina on supporting early stage games
in the UK and her empathetic and pragmatic in the industry
that we can all benefit from us.
So please welcome Gina Jackson.
Thank you, Paul.
The problem with staying fine, as you can see, is I've talked too much.
And it's only going to get worse.
And I'm sorry, I wasn't going to hold the top.
But the reason I've lost my voice is because actually this BBC has been
for long and the least successful for me.
The level of funding that I'm seeing available in the games industry
has fundamentally shifted to the business.
I'm not a particularly optimistic person.
I'm very British and I'm out of ST.
So for me to say I'm feeling optimistic is quite a big thing.
So a little bit better.
I've talked a little bit about before.
I have worked on doing a game from Sensor and a PS5.
There are 200 of those I've signed from mobile to PC,
basically all the major platforms.
I've also developed on Jaguar and 3DO and Game Gear.
Which finally just means I'm old.
And I've worked on development a long time.
I currently run an online marketplace to help developers buy funding.
Or by the way it's pre-developed.
And part of that is exposing a lot of the data that both publishers
and investors are looking for.
We currently have 16 open submission calls from 10 different publishers.
So we're actually telling you what they look for.
I know that's a radical idea.
But we're telling you what budgets they're looking for,
what's running what they're looking for,
what will make you stand out for them.
Because it shouldn't be this hard.
It really shouldn't.
And it's not hard just to say,
by the way guys, I'm looking for this.
Have you got this?
If you'd like to submit it to me in a form that's standardised
and where I can see exactly what state of what you want.
So, I have a question for you.
Are you sure you want financial investment?
I think this is the question that most people don't actually ask.
They just say, I want to make the game.
How do I find somebody to pay for me to do that?
But you're making a central contract with them as well as an actual contract.
You are saying, I am going to commit to do everything I can to make you back your money.
To be commercial.
So, my question to you is, are you still sure you want investment from a publisher or anything like that?
And to go back to Oscar's point, if that's not for you, do you know what, that's okay.
Kickstarter might be the way forward.
Patreon, there are many other ways of raising money.
So, what I want to say to most developers is have that conversation first and make that decision openly
before you then go on and work out whether you want to work with a publisher or work with an investor.
Developers trying to focus on creativity.
Funding requirements are significantly more than just a great game.
I'm not trying to put down creativity in any way.
What I'm trying to do is create a stable foundation for you to be the most creative you can possibly be.
But if you don't understand the other side of the business and you don't expose those to the publisher or the editor,
you won't have the ability to be as creative as I want you to be.
Funding is looking for viability, impact and execution.
And when you think about putting your communication, your pitch back, all your information together,
try and think how a funder would have been seeing hundreds of pictures.
I'd probably get pitched 350 games a year for grant funding,
but also on the back of that I've run this marketplace where I see thousands of pictures.
And then make funders confident that you can deliver what you say you're going to deliver.
And make them confident that you are thinking correctly.
So I guess what I would say is remarkable or amazing when you're going to walk out here and go,
I've never heard of that before.
But people do it so badly.
Or they do it in a cursory road that they don't really mean it.
So find a product market fit.
Validate your ideas early.
And people go, yeah, yeah, I get that.
And it's really easy.
I know, I've built a SaaS to go, I know what they want.
We'll just do this and we won't check it over and over again.
To have somebody in mind who is always your player and to go back to them going,
we can feel that that's taking away from creativity.
It's not.
It's just making sure you're going to bring something to the market.
And I'm not saying either, create a camel by taking everybody's idea that would have been a horse that you wanted to make,
it means they just made it into account.
Show return on investment.
When you're going to a publisher or an investor, do you know what the return is?
I find that very few developers have actually done that calculation.
Are you offering them three times their investment?
Five times?
Ten times?
Because you've worked out the numbers.
With all the data that's available that belongs to the references people have given,
you can actually work that out.
You don't have to say it, but you should know it.
And finally, communicate clearly.
Articulate it.
Having gone through the thought process,
you should have considered all the ideas before you go to a pick set.
People tend to go to a pick set first,
without having worked out everything before they do it.
Audience-based engagement.
I love paper.
Not everybody does.
Going back to, it's time to go to third if everyone has to say anything,
but going back to what Aske said,
the user metrics are incredibly important.
The community engagement, the viable potential.
But if you can't ever do that stuff,
if it's a feeling or you're making the game that you want to make,
again, it's better for you.
Cost of frequencies and delivery.
Why do you put that feature in?
What's the return?
How many more units are you going to sell by putting that feature in the game?
I see very few developers thinking it in that commercial way.
Obviously, present life.
Obviously, these are valid.
But make sure you're aligned with your goals.
And again, what's your return on investment?
I'll just keep saying it.
You need to know that number.
And finally, the support system.
Access to talent.
The industry is fractured hugely,
but it's also an opportunity.
There is lots of talent,
and there's lots of people who want to work in different ways,
whether that's remotely, or part-time,
or multiple teams that they really want to work with.
That's something that we can help all take advantage of.
Stable cash flow is the most important thing for me.
Because if you don't have stable cash flow,
or you don't understand how to meet payroll every month,
you're not thinking about being creative.
You're panicking about all the other things.
About everything you have for your staff.
How are you going to sell them?
It's all going to be a bit late.
So make sure that you understand your capital about everything else.
Food culture, of course.
And clear leadership, of course.
So finally, creativity is the most important thing.
Make sure you have all those other underlying elements.
The structure, the ROI, discoverability, and culture.
But if you put them all together, then you can have fun with success.
Because making the best game ever is not enough.
We need to show you consistent all of these areas.
And within our marketplace,
we allow you to create free profiles
for the 200 data points that investors and developers are looking for.
Even if you don't publish this stuff,
if the smallest thing I've done is give you a free tool and checklist
to understand what those data points are,
I think that I've done a good job.
So please go ahead and take a look if that's useful for you.
Thank you.
Thank you, Gina.
Really nice to hear some optimism just about the general state of things.
So up next, we have Ian.
Ian is someone that I've been lucky enough to work with for a long time.
I think this is going to be a unique insight into things you can learn
when you leave games when you go into the tech world.
So please welcome Ian.
Hello, everyone.
It's free today on Friday,
and I'm going to talk to you about the international standards.
I promise we're going to get through this thing up.
So what is this panel really about?
How to make people in morality?
And all that goes into the funding that we get to start with.
And how do we show funders that we are going to execute?
And even if the funder is our arms,
how can we make sure that we're doing right by those people that invest in us,
so that we don't misprunt with the idea for that game in our lives,
but we can actually execute it.
So as Paul said at the beginning,
I founded Run7 Games and worked in the game for 15 years.
And then I made the move to be the panel CTO of Opta Brain Ragnostics,
a tech company spun out of Opta University.
And I took the tech that had been developed in the lab in Opta
and I put it up in the cloud, automated it, put it at scale,
and then designed and developed a clinical product that took the brain scan
and gave the clinicians and the patients crucial information about their brains
with respect to the neural DNA disorder.
Now, as you can imagine, you have to develop things a different way
in the medical space than when you're just making a game
and no one's really going to check your work,
pretty much about how many complaints you get from your users
on the first weekend you launch.
And that is codified in, like I said, 745 in my area.
Now, what this is about is decades of people making mistakes
and formalising good practices that really we should all be followed.
And then the medical center would be the way to say,
well, you cannot launch this product unless you follow the crisis.
I'm going to talk about the crisis in terms that we can help you understand
and in terms of that to show how it will make it more likely
that your brain can be a success.
So in the start of the cloud, you can imagine if you're making a new kind of syringe
or a new kind of medication or a new kind of bed or a hospital ward.
It's relatively easy to write a list of all the things that that product should do.
Those are your product requirements.
But you can do it in games as well.
Now, we all know that you don't start off on day one of making a game
knowing how you level play it.
You don't even know what gameplay loop is yet.
And then realistically, when you're new to this,
you spend all your money finding out what gameplay loop is
and then you run out of money and it goes really bad.
But you can really help yourselves by working out all the things that are important to you,
writing them down, and then having a discussion with all the stakeholders of your project,
all your partners, our partners, which you fund your actual partners,
and then narrowing down and working out how that can make you more likely to be successful.
So I think most of us have an idea of what the genre would be of the game.
And once we've written that down on the spreadsheet and we've said,
we're making the first person do that,
some of these questions that my co-panelists have said that you should be asking yourself,
they come naturally.
Because someone is going to come here and say,
don't we sure we should make an FPS?
Are they selling well?
What kind of FPS?
All these questions that as a designer that I was going to be used to irritate me,
because I felt I knew everything.
It was all in my subconscious.
But I didn't.
I had to make all those mistakes.
If you write these down as a poem, you could expose your thinking as the auteur
to what the other people would come to you to do.
And this next one, you know, we talked about engagement metrics.
Engagement metrics are really, really important.
Again, it can be quite unpleasant to think about early on,
when all you've got are dreams of this magically new world that you've created.
But you should do it, because being able to validate things, early on,
is what makes you successful.
And just basically putting more money, more of your money, on Black 23,
as you run out of money, is what you want to be used to do.
And there's some great stuff in there.
Do you like a place though?
Then you should put it down.
People can start thinking about that.
Your artist is going to start thinking about that.
And if you're someone who really wants to be nominated for divine awards,
don't be embarrassed about it.
Write it down.
Talk to you.
Because once you start understanding that that's the kind of love you are,
then talk to us about that.
Talk to us about what kind of audience you should be seeking.
What kind of funders you should be looking at.
And also, you know, how much money is it going?
Think about what you actually need.
Again, you could do what you want.
But what would really be a great job to do?
80K a year, doing the thing that you love.
40K a year, and wipe it down.
Okay.
The risk analysis is actually the thing that causes most trouble
during medical device birth.
Because people make their medical device and think that they are ready.
But what they have to do, is they have to wipe out all of the millions of things
that could possibly go by.
And that leads to new product violence, and they have to finish it,
got a whole load of all software devices.
So, again, it's probably pretty easy to imagine the kind of stuff
you listen to that stuff in their technology.
So, and my company has spent a lot of time communicating this about our users,
sending this people on to study.
We're a software service company that automatically processes your brain scan.
What if the medic sends us the wrong brain scan?
What if we get a brain scan?
It's completely different.
And this happens disturbingly often.
The regulators are happy to understand that this is stuck to our blind.
But we have to have addressed those words, and understood them.
At the end of the day, you can say, actually, this is a risk.
This is going to happen by a certain time, and this is what happens when it does happen.
They accept that.
There's always been a problem with that as well.
So, again, let's talk about the things that are actually releasing risks for your game.
The release of Windows is a big deal.
I think we probably all thought the game was having a really, really bad time,
because it happened to release the week after, say, Expired 2.
Back when I was coming, I think it was Dark Reign that released 2 weeks to 4 after September 1.
And it was great to have a conversation, and everyone could talk about it.
Not since anything is coming up, you have to have some lead time to press.
Obviously, there's a problem with the one-out category.
But if you start thinking about mitigating it, then you can do their job with it.
And you should definitely be thinking about stuff like the name of the game.
We had a big problem when we thought we're getting a frozen end zone.
No one liked that.
And we had to pivot away from it late in the bed, and that was actually quite a emotionally difficult problem.
We should find out early if these things aren't going to work.
Even more fundamentally, you guys are all very talented, and I'm sure you're making games that have really exciting new elements to them.
How long does it take for players to really understand what your mechanic is doing?
And if it's too long, you've got to change that.
Because with all of those words about stickiness, that kind of thing,
it is the real difference between succeeding the fate of how quickly someone understands the engagement of what you're doing to me.
And finally, if you think of journalism, it's going to be bad news.
Well, you should think about how quickly they're done.
Finally, and we'll go through this repetitively quickly,
when something goes wrong with the technology, you need to make sure that you respect that.
So these are called CAPAs, Corrections and Trains of Actions.
You must have a system where anything that goes on is recorded.
And the list of things that go wrong to view very regularly,
and the solutions are too uniform, and that they are verified.
The verification is the most important part of this,
because people don't really do their jobs properly if their output is not verified.
And that's what the criticism, that's just the way it's like.
You have to feel that everyone is doing actually meaningful.
Otherwise, the very intelligent and conscious doesn't want you to do it,
because it's a conscious one to do things that are meaningful.
So, when you have something bad happen out in the world, like you get a crash,
or you're kind of there walking away from your game,
you should pay great attention to this and say,
this signal is truly valuable, and I'm not going to risk it.
I'm going to pay you to think that.
Have formal assistance, where you write these things down,
and you read the statements from your team members,
how you're going to decide to fix it, and how you're going to verify that it is going to fit.
And I promise you, if the stuff doesn't happen, you'll get really, really good stuff.
And I've just got to go ahead and see if we can get a lot to back,
and we might do it, because it's a leader of the stuff that you might do,
and they turn $35,000 at least.
So, you can do yourself and do yourself.
So, thank you very much for this.
So, please join me in thanking all of our panelists together for the great session.
Thank you.
Okay, so now we have some time for everyone's favourite part,
it's a Q&A.
So, if anyone would like to ask a question, please don't be shy.
There is a huge wealth of experience up here, from game services, businesses,
to game design, to pitching, to funding.
If you have anything that you might want to ask,
please approach the microphone in the centre here,
and just go ahead and get a new floor in the morning.
Okay, really good stuff.
And how should we have microphones there,
because we should now be ready and live for you to answer anything.
any questions.
So, hello.
Hello.
Hi.
First of all, thank you.
This is genuinely really kind of...
I guess my question is, for those of us who have been kind of working on
either putting together a business strategy or a business plan,
but don't necessarily have a background in, like, business analysis,
or...
I guess what are some, like, recommendations or advice that you can give,
where we can be educated enough to do our own, our white relations,
but don't necessarily, you know, need to do something in our effort without excess.
I think one of the quick ways is you basically find common rules,
and then you argue why your game is very similar to them,
and why people enjoy the same level of success.
And then if you want to be more thoughtful than that,
sometimes you can do a high, a mid, and a low,
where you've found a spectrum of games that are all similar to your game,
and you're like, well, this is our best case,
and this would be kind of our mediocre case,
but our game is going to be very similar,
so we should be somewhere in this range.
That's how I would improve the analysis of the part.
Just grab that.
So I'd start off with the break even,
and then I'd move to the couple more,
and then try and work out from there what you can do.
There's a lot of information on sales forecasting,
and particularly discounting on Steam that's available,
and there's some really great people doing some great stuff.
So I would follow all of them and just try and lap up all that information.
I've built so many models that have PTSD in building them.
And I'm assuming you're referring to a business model
from the spreadsheet point of view.
There are obviously models, three models.
But I have two basic approaches, top-down on one.
So top-down, I'm looking at as much data as I could possibly get,
and historically we used to have tools like reflections
where we get reasonably achieved analysis of the estimated revenue
for a mobile game, particularly.
You can do that with Steam TV and stuff like that.
But you have to be very careful.
Steam Spy, whilst theoretically good,
has some really funky calculations.
It can be problematic.
But it's good.
Just pay the Patreon and get access to the data.
I think it's okay.
Anyway, get what data you can, and then look at this is the kind of revenue
that these kinds of games can possibly make.
Now, sometimes we're going to have to interpret a guess
because we're off this game.
We don't share data like other industries.
We're getting into trouble for all of them.
So you've got to make some kind of guess.
What we think these kinds of games in my genre –
I think it's not just the genre,
the specific slice of the sub-genre that you're looking at.
And then from that, try to work out,
well, if I'm going to get to that level of revenue,
what's the path to get to that?
Thinking about user acquisition,
now I'm someone who pays on that from your game.
You're thinking about the process of being there.
You can't ignore the cost of doing it.
You can't ignore the team to build it.
And you can't ignore the testing you have to do
because you're going to influence the Correct!
You're going to get it wrong,
you're going to get it wrong,
I'm going to do this much work, I need these people, I'm going to do these things, and if I do that, the contract position is this, the organic way is going to be that, I tend to think of the case factor, which is a fudge, which is basically, if I spend this much money on paper user acquisition, that could be on ads, it could be on streaming, it could be on something, if I do pay that much,
I'm not only going to get the customer installed, I'm also going to get it up there, because I've been noisy, the mistake I often make, somewhat deliberate, because it's easy to make a model simple, is to not realise that the more you spend, the more you're going to have to spend paper, gosh, go on, anyway, I'm talking to you, but there's lots in there, okay, thank you, thank you, Mike, I have a question, as a small indie startup looking for investment,
for people, how can you create prices for clients, is it through excessive documentation, addressing potential risks that might incur as we go through the development process?
Yeah, so I don't think you have to get full accreditation, although some of the larger funders, they might want to see a social security accreditation, like this, I would love the one, I would do risk analysis, I'd do the product requirements, and I'd go out there with their plans, and I'd talk to people about it, and you can get ahead of your competition by doing that, especially with risk analysis, it's something they won't always see, and they'll be impressed, if you take this seriously, so, thank you.
Thank you.
Hey, thanks so much for the talk, I'm thinking about the process of the game, and validating it, and so, what are the best ways to validate a video game, and at what point do you, like, have enough data to assume, this is going to be a hit and make money, or maybe we should fail?
No, I mean, I think early and often, and with a clear objective, each time you do it, is the best approach to any sort of game validation, so, what are we testing this time, who do we need to test it, is that new players, is that, maybe it's sympathetic folks, who kind of aren't going to worry too much about onboarding, if you've already had a chance, so just kind of define what you want to find out, setting up the test, and everything I would say.
The extreme version is basically open development, where you're doing everything in public, you're turning it into development, work you're doing in marketing, as you go, with the community, on social media, giving them short snippets of content, doesn't really work for the narrative in a narrative game,
but, in my previous roles, I actually gave a full talk to GDC about open development, because that's what we did with our Ninja Rabbit fighting game overgrowth, and it shows you quite quickly, I think, to flip it around, where big triple A companies go wrong, is they have to often work in a cave for a long time, without getting that raw external feedback, and I think the longer you work in a cave, the more risk you're building, until you validate it again, somehow, it doesn't have to be public,
you've got to be public, and you've got to do your test constantly.
I'd say, even right at the beginning, so you can go with a screenshot, you can go with a concept idea, it's really cheap to find people on social media, who are interested in the subject you're trying to do, and ask them the practitioners, do you want this side of art style, this kind of game, really early on?
I signed a game, about brewing a craft ale, as a management sim, because they've done so much research, and they've had a clear understanding of what that game needed to be, it was about chemistry, it wasn't about running a business, it wasn't about being comedic in any way, they did it in Unreal, because they wanted it to be an actual, real-life simulator, and that's what they wanted it to be.
I want to add to this thing,details, to говорит them out loud enough, and seeing what happens, getting user feedback without putting their full iPhone
to stand up on its own two legs in the game loops.
Okay, now we know it's ready for the next milestone
for internal production will be a digital life piece.
You're giving me great stuff, thanks.
Hello.
Hi, I love the medications.
I'm a student at the University of Silicon Valley.
First year, my question is how do investors deal
about AI, the AI friendly, how is the AI affecting
the fundraising, and also how do investors deal
about new tools that are, how do I get family
with new tools for the fundraising.
I'll jump on this one real quick.
What I'm seeing from the yellow grease
in this portfolio is that investors tend to really like it.
Sometimes people say there's over-experience,
that AI is the new buzzword, just like crypto
is a buzzword or something before that.
Publishers are not sure.
A lot of publishers, especially in the hidden space,
have declared that they don't want to work
with generated AI content.
I think that will soften and change over time maybe,
but the theory is that there's a lot of slots
in the job replacement and other things,
so we need kind of an ethical way to approach it
for everyone to really want to embrace the technology.
about AI in both places, the kind of everyone's.
As a company, that's AI, but it's not about the AI.
The answer to the question is what they're going to do.
It's a change.
And there is a lot of people that are thinking
that they're going to work in a version.
It's not about talking about AI.
It's all about this is a technology that is really
as a civic action, and the actual purpose, and actual
this is how we defend our tech strategy.
This is our note, our data note, of why we have
something very specific that adds value to our tech.
In our case, we're trying to help it.
So you look across your data, your live option,
your production, the body building,
our marketing team delivering it, all the way to the impact
it has on the customer in terms of potential engagement
and revenue, but I want my AI to tell you,
I've noticed this thing, you have noticed,
because I'm a machine learning algorithm that's
looked at all the things that could be going wrong.
I think this is happening in your world,
and then letting you decide what to do.
Now, that's where I can talk about AI as our product,
because I have a very clear value add that we can protect.
If you don't have a clear value add, why are you talking about AI?
Because some people can go down the street,
and just pull up to a hold, or whatever else,
whatever the place of the month is, and do it themselves.
Okay, thank you very much.
I do think AI will empower small teams to compete with incumbents
in more interesting ways than ever before,
and it's part of our moment of change.
So it's weirdly, I think, a good time to be an indie
or small development group if you stay agile
and you experiment with your prototype.
Okay, thank you.
Hello.
Hello.
I'm AJ.
I'm a mobile game founder.
Essentially, right now, I'm raising money for the infrastructure
that my game run knows, which has been a player on that one.
I believe, Gina, you talked about taking on the responsibility
of investors and the expectations of investors,
but where I'm at, I feel like that is just a part of the puzzle,
finding the right fit of the investor and who actually not only has
the money but the motivation and network and ability to execute on their
end for what I need for an investor.
How do you go about engaging what's right?
So I think what I was trying to say was think like an investor
when you put the things together rather than take on those responsibilities.
So that would sort of switch around.
I'm sorry, can you repeat this second one more?
Yeah.
How do you decide who the right fit of an investor is, money aside?
How do you go into...
So I think you need to know who you are.
So it comes down to values and who's going to match your values.
And it's always going to be when things go badly how that's going to work out.
I would also want to know other people who work with them and how that fits.
It's a relationship thing.
And with all relationships you need to understand how other people get on in those relationships
and what they do when things are good and what they do when things are bad.
So there's...
Sorry, I'm thinking about it from a more human point of view than a mechanical point of view.
And if I have someone I can trust and then...
I need an investor that I can say things are going badly and that's okay
and have that sense of the conversation as early as possible.
So that's one of the biggest things I'm looking for is working with investors in the public.
When you engage with a VC, everyone is going to tell you that they're not dumb, they're smart,
they're going to give you extra value add.
Mostly that's not...
Mostly.
Occasionally, you find somebody who actually...
I'm very lucky.
I've been friends with Eric for many years.
I've seen him go through being an indie there building a SaaS platform.
So I'm very lucky to work with a friend who happens to have been through the journey I'm now living through.
So that's when you know you've got someone who gets it.
And he will hold you to account.
Because I can't run away because he can find me.
Do you see what I mean?
Knowing the difference between when you need the money and when they actually can walk in delivering the extra value.
But don't over-estimate the extra value.
Because they've got other things to do.
I think the most cynical take I've heard from Silicon Valley is you know,
Costa says that 80% of investors subtract value.
So it's really...
I mean, that's the most cynical take I've heard.
It shouldn't be that way.
But yeah, alignment is key.
Generally, people that know what a game is are going to be more aligned with you than some kind of outsider investor.
And the best the outsider investor can likely do is to stay out of your way.
The gaming person is going to have their own opinions.
So make sure you line up with them.
Because they might be more hands-on.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Hi.
Hello.
Thank you.
So this is a more of a broader opinion question.
And for context, I think I'm on a similar journey in the sense that we as a studio, we love this kind of super funny for our game.
But we have this technology, which we found to be very useful, like in other games and even outside of games.
So after the game launches, we're trying to transition into, you know, kind of a technology company that sells that as a product.
So I'm just curious, you know, because I've spent a lot of time making like our pitch deck for the game, be risking it and showing how the ROI is massive.
How does that differ, you know, pitching to a publisher and then, you know, making a pitch deck that's instead pitching to a, you know, free seed or VC firm?
I want some part of that.
I mean, I think that you need to look at your, your financial model needs to be much better.
And your commercial part of my client knowledge needs to be much better.
So obviously, it's a lot less about selling your brand vision for an artistic concept that will connect with players.
And it's much more about getting a spreadsheet where everyone sort of agrees to read that.
There's a lot more about, generally, you know, the literal definition is the publisher cares about the game, the next game, and that's it.
And then the VC is investing in the studio.
And they want to know what that shareholder value is going to go up.
So there are two, there are related stories, but the publisher doesn't care how your studio does.
And then I think the good VC would be longer term focused with you and think, okay, let's put your studio across games or like once you launch, what's your follow on plan when you do DLC or SQL or whatever?
And some publishers have those conversations, but you're talking studio low in VC.
I think there's a platform that we always could take you, which is, you're going to get off what you've learned.
Yeah, yeah, we've had that.
I'll ask who else.
I hear your pain because when we're trying to be a publisher, we always want to build tech at some point.
We have to shut the head up about that.
Because we have to either be a publisher or not.
Because no one's going to think you can do that.
And they're probably right.
So understanding how you frame it, what you're framing, what you're proving.
And then, if you aren't successful, fantastic.
If you then have a tech that you can then sell and spin out, fantastic value add.
But if you don't think you're going to be successful again, then just make the platform and focus on that and prove that you can do that.
But if you can't prove that you can be successful, then maybe you need to step back and say, what is my purpose?
Okay, sorry to cut off the panel.
We are getting very close to the end.
Thank you very much.
So what we're going to do, we will be available for wrap-up afterwards.
So please come and find us.
But we can do, if your question is quick, we can do speed round for the remaining people who are here.
So please.
Okay, speed round.
It's been a very susceptible to you seeing parts of my voice, just like you.
You're talking about people.
Today is the first day of my company.
I want to actually do something big.
Or something else.
It's a video of me outside at the JetBrains Group, too, because I'm very good at programming.
And I just want to actually know, at this point, I have a game.
I have software also.
I come from a startup.
And I know that.
A cybersecurity startup.
And I'm just trying to figure out the best way to promote my game.
Not even my game, but my studio.
Now that we're talking, I can just ignore it.
Not let a video game come.
And this is a really good refocusing of how I need to go about it.
I've already had that credential, and I've already worked at Bethesda.
And worked on a scary major thing.
So, how do I pitch this to someone to help me get started?
Okay.
Who would love a quick answer on that?
As far as possible.
Just find as many engagement metrics as you can.
And then work out which of those metrics are going to be able to connect.
It's good to have a 3 second pitch, a 10 second pitch, and a 1 minute pitch.
And I used to tell people about mini rapid fighting games all the time at GDC and other places.
Give out 1,000 cards and get 300 back.
And then it's not everybody's useful contact.
But some of them are.
And then you just keep growing from there.
So, it's a big day.
You're off to a good start by being here and networking with people.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Awesome.
Thank you.
Okay.
All brand-sponsored mini-games and, like, PRA are immersive.
Do you think that that can scale?
Like, just taking money from brands like Red Bull, Disney, whatever.
Do you think that that can actually be a business?
Yes.
Yes.
Yes, but it's usually different budgets.
It's usually non-rede budgets.
And again, we did that in Red Bull.
Red Bull was in PlayStation 9, AdWords, Abbott, AdWords.
We've got a number of brands.
But they didn't follow them all.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
Unfortunately, we ran out of time with this feedback, but there are too many people.
Please do come and find us afterwards.
Tell us, please...
Thank you very much.
