That is awesome, that is awesome.
How many of you have this set of five years?
Right here, we have 10 years, we've got a couple of 10 years.
15, 20, you are three, do you feel like that more than 25?
You, sir, is that different?
38.
38.
38, who else has their hair?
34.
No, no, no, yeah.
It's a math problem.
It's not that.
It's 26, right here.
All right, so here's the leaders that you know of all,
which is the first time.
You're walking around with this convention,
people that started this industry still working here.
So what I would recommend that you do is make yourself available.
Introduce yourself.
Talk to people.
Really lean in.
This is the time we all get to be together to celebrate this
incredible art form that practices you here today.
And a lot of the people in the family are still here looking
for you today.
So find that and I will be very close to that.
All right, we're going to get this straight into it.
So this is my college here.
It's very shocking.
It's very new to me.
And so I'm going to do my best to break it out of the shell.
So my name is Chris Colasinos.
I'm the full evangelist for video games at .
And I am my brother, the amazing, awesome,
and the lovely sky that I'm going to start at.
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
I am, uh, I'm the founder of ASGC,
always supporting the games community,
and I'm also the business development director
at Penn Center.
Woo!
Woo!
And the unofficial Nintendo mascot.
We're taking a show of February 8th.
And so today's fireside chat, you know,
we had some conversations with the,
the crew that runs, um, the community clubhouse,
which we should all take a round of applause.
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
ele!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
that underscores, none of this minimizes hardships,
but we hope we're going to spotlight
some very real positive spots
that will have them also be pretty, absolutely different.
But first, we should talk real quickly
about these two other heads already in the story.
So, Amir, you're sending this picture here,
the night before I received a really entertaining system
from a grandparent's grandparent.
Tell me about that moment.
Oh, you know, it was so special.
Like, grandparents were like second parents to me,
and it's, we would always open the consoles together,
the Atari 2600 and then the NES after that,
and we would all sit around playing,
like, I don't know, someone was opening
a Gibson baby shower or something,
so it's pretty, pretty amazing, amazing.
I've been insufferable about intentions
for all this morning.
For my part, yeah, just being old GBA
and early throne back in the day,
and I did the talk this morning.
If anyone had happened to come by,
you may see a repeat of a couple of data points here,
but also, this is how I started learning the program.
This is actually my compute gazette from 1985,
and why it was so important is because when you were a kid
and you got this magazine and you wanted to play the games
on the front, you had to tie it in,
and all of these things, and it was frustrating and joyous
all at the same time because, I mean,
it was just this moment of creation here,
like, you know, I played this game and I'm sitting here,
you know, if I, and so why is it,
what happens if I change it to five?
And then you play the game, you have five eyes,
and you're like, I'm a hacker!
Like, oh, that's exactly, my face was like,
that all concept even basically about our industry.
The point of this, why I wanted to share this with you,
is this is something that we both have carried
through our whole lives, right?
The joy and the amazing of this industry,
and I know that when I'm here,
it's out talking to partners, talking to developers,
that is what he's carrying in his heart,
that is what I'm carrying in my heart, right?
So please understand that the work that we collectively do
is many, many, many of us in the industry
are doing the same way.
Truly, it's because we care about you,
we care about our work,
and we care about this industry desperately, okay?
And so, another thing we're going to talk about,
the troubles we have,
we also take them very much to work.
Whenever someone tells me that,
how much they want to work in the industry,
I want you to please frame that picture.
I go immediately back to how I felt in that picture,
and I do feel it, and I know how you feel it.
I really, absolutely.
All right, so that was,
you don't need more of a,
or, sorry.
All right, so I'm going to do that thing,
since now I'm going to talk about
where you are in that space.
But actually, before you do that,
Amir and I did have a discussion,
as we thought we would surface,
and remind people of it.
Amir, have you ever worked for a student?
No, no, I have not.
One year in publishing,
but like into the conglomerate,
both of us throughout our careers,
have had roles that are just completely different from that.
And I think it's important to remind people that,
I think we too narrowly focus on what it means
to be part of the industry.
We have so many friends and colleagues here,
they're all gamers, they're all part of the industry,
and what that means is very diverse.
You can talk about,
well, you don't want that,
but no, I have not worked for a game developer
or publisher in my entire career.
I was the chief game officer
in some microsystems of a new game
and entertainment strategy,
Verizon, the principal manager for games at AWS,
never worked for a publisher,
never worked for a game developer.
And that doesn't mean that I will support
all the other work that you all do,
every single day I walk into the office,
right, to do my job.
And so like on your set,
there are no, you know,
when you think about new things,
there are no straight lines here, okay?
So where you may be today
and how you want to bring in
or the things that you may think you want to do,
open yourself up to the idea
of what the industry actually is,
and the many things you need to hear
are sort of a talent
and bring them to bear, like, in this video.
Okay?
Alright, let's talk about the industry.
We've got 3.82 billion players around the world.
Isn't that amazing?
$220 billion will be projected.
We've all played in terms of play.
60%, 70%, 70% of the players.
We've gained 3% of the players.
70% to 70% of parents play with your kids.
And that's going to be very important a little bit later,
so we'll keep it on the back of the brain.
Okay.
But there's one set of steps,
like, in the cat's name,
is Gen Alpha.
Right?
Gen Alpha is the very first global voice
we've ever had in the industry
where we're going to be
one of the number one form in the region.
Period.
And it puts this character in the health scale.
So, in your life, you know,
and the work that you do about here,
how do you kind of see that as presenting itself,
right?
The status, the number of people playing,
and the fact that you have always,
you know, experience at the street number,
how do you see what it looks like?
If in your community and working for jobs,
how does that appear?
Oh, I mean, it appears in so many ways
that we'll talk about throughout this talk,
which is, I think, one example is,
people are now native with games
as something that's a part of their life.
And I think that not only carries with their identity,
but it's also part of their confidence
when you're playing games
and you want to build them.
Like, I'm always amazed.
My son goes to this programming class.
He's only seven years old.
And when we go there,
every kid I see there,
I'm like, I'm programming in Roblox today.
And, like, I wanted to take a programming class,
like, since the time I was, like, very little.
There were not C++ classes around me
until I was almost 18 years old.
So, it's like a barrier.
Yeah, yeah.
Very, very, very true.
It's a great creation here.
And, you know,
they consider themselves
using a lot of people,
some identify with that much.
I'm like, there's any stigma
that certain people are not have to have,
not to care,
but if they're being gamers,
like, there's no such stigma.
No, exactly.
Yeah.
And, obviously, no.
I didn't care at all.
It's like, all right, whatever.
Yeah, and you did a whole better job
in my mind.
People are like,
James, that's what your dad does.
I'm like,
I'm like,
I'm like,
I'm like,
I'm like,
you can't eat this if you play my own car.
Awesome.
You know,
we have,
you know,
you know,
take a look at these other things
come from Matthew Ball.
We have,
over $220 million on a track board
to look verticalized,
any of the money we get.
We win from a revenue perspective.
Right?
So,
if everybody's playing,
we generate more money.
There's,
the youngest group,
that is,
you know,
the way they engage.
Right?
What the hell is the problem?
Like,
why do you feel the way that you feel right now?
Right?
In the industry.
Um,
so,
one of the things that we talk about
in these new challenges,
is truly,
that the pandemic created a big,
deadly weird,
that has operated the public trade industry,
that has now affected this cause,
cause this ripple.
And we don't think it's as dire as you may think it is.
Um,
when we talk about the challenges,
the care is,
like,
sorry,
that's a good,
that's easy to work.
Um,
so,
um,
and I don't think you know what that means.
So,
um,
I guess I've got the evidence to do that,
you know,
um,
so we look at all these things that are happening,
um,
and we feel those questions on the business.
Again,
this pandemic really grew,
it grew,
it grew,
it's rational,
it's rational,
it's rational,
it's rational,
it's rational,
it's rational.
Now,
we saw,
we have the adjustment,
and have them saying,
you know,
it's too much stupid money in thedetails,
it has seemed to less,
several years,
now it's,
덧стiness,
gentr.
Okay, so when we look at those pressures, I think all of the pressures are based on the entire industry,
where do we, where do we have to see what shows up?
And the pressures appear are to be very different in your experience,
and data issues like that, where it's happening around the world.
Walk us a little bit of that. Absolutely.
And as I say this, we can show up in the next slide as well, which I think will tie into that as well,
which is, you know, in a way, we're a bit of a bit of our own success.
And so, I think the thing to realize is that the more and more time it passes,
the data suggests to me that this is really a demand problem,
in the sense of the number of people who want to work in the industry, which is really big.
Nonetheless, if we look at this come very soon, for example, in North America,
the number of these varying programs have increased by ten times.
If I look at people who work in non-games and want to switch into games,
this might surprise you.
And I try to say that too, we try to say it too.
More people than ever are career switchers who actually decide this is the moment
where they want to switch from non-games to games.
So, we were talking about a moment ago, aided by tools and also in the industry,
more and more people had younger ages building their own games and entrances in that path.
And one other thing I'll say is that, as many of you are going to say all the time,
this is of course a geographic story too, in the sense that, with all the cuts which are very real and very heart rate,
50,000 plus of them by the end of this year 2020, 2025, the actual size of the industry has grown.
Higher and it still remains between 15,000 to 25,000 people a year.
It just so happens that we're sitting and moving North America, the way disproportionate impact of that
has been in North America and Western Europe, and the way disproportionate impact has been on the form factor
of people who work with traditional, large, triple-rate students.
So, so many people, you know, are not out of the school, right, going,
okay, now I know what I want to do.
I love playing three-year games and I really want to go ahead and sign them.
Quite often, you know, someone will go, oh, I have no idea there's this way to add them all.
Exactly here, which is why I, because it's an evangelist side of here.
You don't need a new task. I don't do my new task.
So, it's not a good thing.
And so, when we think about that and the rise of those things, the expectation is,
okay, I kind of get out of the unit programs and now I've got a lot of pleasure
to say, here's my freshman, I got this degree, and yes, you need to hire me.
And then, nothing, then it's science, right?
As we, the people that look at this, do you find that their approach to becoming an issue
is focused on those additional routes of graduate,
graduate, graduate students, versus looking at the many different ways
that they can bring things in. What do those others like?
Yeah, I mean, as definitely performers, as you said, Chris, I think one of the big challenges is that when people come out of the programs,
there's a lot of concentration, you find people that have anything else,
majoring things like game design and sub-fields of that, which we know are, ironically, the hardest areas to get work in.
And one of the most interesting things is, you talk about this a lot of advice as well,
if you can believe this everybody, since 2022 when we started the community,
and I'm very proud to say this. Overall, basically the rates of people,
any jobs, including non-means, are actually up, which is really, really great news.
But that's happening for people who need kind of two or three criteria.
One is as much as possible, they're as geographically flexible as possible.
Two, as much as possible, they're as flexible as whether they work in non-games or not.
And three, as much as possible, they're looking for an adjacent job.
And so like you said about me and I have never had a kind of traditional down-to-down careers.
Someone like me, for example, who worked in non-games for 17 years, got a job in games, and had to go out of games,
then went back to the games. I think you should never lose that passion at that,
but having that maximum flexibility will make it much easier,
and that's why I'm going to convince people to do that,
when I'm going to go over a child's game. It just may not come into exactly what it is.
I would say one of my failings was that I was unable to get him over to my team
before he had to do an exit Amazon.
Damn it! But no. So let's talk a bit about that too.
As I mentioned before, you know, we talk about it all the time,
there's no straight line, right, in this industry.
Tell us about how, we're going to park this a little bit,
and tell me about, I mean, how did you get into the game side when you were at AWS,
you know, to begin with life?
What kind of budget should you get from me?
You know, maybe not only do people have a game.
Oh, sure. Well, I mean, I had to do with this, you know,
I was trying to stay shut down the industry for as long as I could,
and my great group was, I had a lot of heard of each strategy called fun gaming,
and everything that they wanted for the role matched what I had except not with the adjective games.
So I went in, and I gave them my application,
and in addition to my resume and cover letter,
I gave them a four-page additional games resume.
I gave them a minimized list of the 2,000 plus games I've played in my life.
So they're either going to like, they're either going to like,
yeah, tell me, like, I can help, or like, it's an opportunity.
So like, I think that, you know, again, passion is an overloaded word,
but I think like, you'll know when you have your shot,
and when it's that moment, and I knew that was the moment,
and I took the shot, and then I loved it.
I know that we have very similar paths in that,
at the time I was working before at the Google,
like I said, I would start with some micro-systems,
created a job, right?
And I was selling computer systems to the military,
and to government, and also able intelligence,
Jadis, NSCOM, all of those, you know, big things in Washington,
and all of them, and certainly by Google Joy
are one of the greatest computer scientists that we've ever had.
And then you didn't need a dryer, you could just see
there was a display device with these capabilities,
you could use it, and then they would want the computer
to just disappear, and it was like magic.
And I was sitting there going, oh, I could plug a Playstation
that's stabbing into the same network,
I could double the game plan that they were developing,
like something like that.
And so I wrote, this is when, and did a bunch of research
on where we needed to be in Java and OpenPlay.
This is in 97, is when I wrote it.
And I shopped it for two and a half years in the company,
and nobody could listen.
Go somewhere, web servers, for design.com,
they went all the background stuff.
And finally one day I went home, I heard the internal discussion
that was going on, and one of our chief designers,
and he said, why are we going to see the suit processes
that we're doing in a Sega issue, or a Sony issue?
And I was so upset, and I packed up my desk,
lighted my black diary, and I started to walk down,
and my boss is like, where are you going?
So I'm going home.
He's like, do you feel well?
I'm like, I don't know.
I'm just very upset from now with this company.
And I told my wife, I'm going to do something tomorrow.
I don't know how it's going to land.
She's like, are you marketable after that?
You just bought a house and you just had a kid?
And I was like, we'll see.
And you sign up for the ride, lady, let's go.
And I wrote an e-mail to Scott McFeely,
this five-hour e-mail that I still haven't posted
not too long ago on LinkedIn.
And I was trying to be so cool.
I'm like, William Steven and John's over at Apple.
And I sent it to them, and I didn't hear anything,
and I called their office three weeks later and said,
hey, it's Chris.
And they're like, it's Chris.
And so I'm coming out to the corporate visit,
and I need ten minutes with Scott McFeely.
And if it's walking into the toilet and back,
I'll take the ten minutes.
And they're like, oh, that's so funny.
Let's see what we can do.
And his credit, he called me at my desk that afternoon.
Which, as anyone who knows, that's like, you know,
he's a bomb and pick up the phone call.
And I was one of my customers,
and I was like, no, no, no.
And I was like, hey, screenwriter,
I just said you wanted to talk about your game.
And I was like, ah, sure.
And he's like, great work.
They gave it to my point of the record.
And I'm like, what?
Like this?
You know what?
And he said, no, we're going to be out in the process
where we're going to put it into safety machines
and certain machines.
I tell my kids this all the time.
I share with anybody right here.
So listen.
Take the damn shot.
Because I listened to what he said,
and I said, Scott, no offense,
but whoever is advising you is wrong.
And you just said, why?
And I said, dreamcast is over your ship.
That's the closed box for five years.
The place you do damage is before you ship.
That's the closed box.
It's a pleasure to be able to sell it.
But if you look at that with a mobile phone,
and you look at what's happening with all my money.
And it's exactly what we do as a company.
We spend 20 minutes on the phone,
and then a month later they call and say,
all right, you, come to the corporate,
you're going to be on the internet.
So when we talk about our paths
and getting into the straight lines,
part of it is doing the work,
but believing in your salvation,
but believing in yourself enough to take the risk.
And I had a colleague telling me once and said,
I'd like you to be talking,
but you're willing to risk your job for all the money.
It's absolutely true.
And you really have to believe in yourself.
I've been talking about all the positives,
but I can't tell you even when we were starting the game scheme,
how many people told me they thought it was completely idiotic idea.
They're like, who's going to take games advice
from some person who's only worked in the industry for two years?
So, you know, at the end of the day, you really have to believe in yourself.
And check your biases.
I'm so pretty.
Why doesn't anybody else recognize it?
The problem may be you, right?
The problem may be nobody can internalize your ideas.
So, be hard on yourself.
Be hard on your biases.
Listen to your secret strategies.
You ultimately get to grow.
So, going back and very fast to your,
a bit more of our origin stories,
I'd let you know that you don't have to come from games to be in your state.
To your point about the global success of the video games has expanded
and it's a massive huge failure.
And the tools of creation have basically driven to zero.
So, now the great story can come from anywhere in the world.
So, in essence, what we're feeling right now is one of the questions
of our success that we have as an industry and as an art form.
And I don't know, I mean, it's a huge success.
In a sense, it's actually a merit.
If you think about it, the industry is still as successful as it is.
With all these other forms of competition.
Like I said, it's 5, 10X increases in demand.
With the fact that there's 20,000 games on Steam all the time.
It's like when you actually sit down and put it down in the ledger,
the fact that human builder borrow out of challenges,
it's still as much as possible.
It's actually, we don't look at the glass half full
of how much of it still is very, very healthy.
All of us still have to keep fighting for improvements
in the parts that have been themselves.
But do we find that too neat to gain this industry?
Or do we find that is the case across every trade endeavor,
every trade industry, the same type of discovery,
ensuring balance.
Everything's just really hard right now.
I mean, I'm sure everybody here, like anybody who has a job,
doing anything.
I don't know many people.
I don't know many people.
I don't know many people like developers and nurses
who are like, hot dog.
Like, everything's like swimming right now.
I mean, I think these are pretty universal challenges.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Anything that's pretty good in the first place,
you know, also have to think of what the problem is.
Right?
And where taste change is .
And that's why we should talk about this.
Because something happens of your audience just being hacked.
So, when we look at things like TikTok,
the average TikTok viewers watch is 133 a day,
and they're 42.7 seconds long.
That's 90 minutes a day that they're spending on TikTok,
on average.
YouTube, the numbers aren't as dramatic as the press.
It's about 49 minutes a day .
But we learn just rationalizing consumption
across those two vectors,
there's wheels and shorts and stuff that Spotify does,
right, with those moments that you come around.
Or, good morning group.
Anybody subscribe to the morning group?
Do you know what this is?
Yeah.
Well, there's not because they're hugely successful.
Because the truth is the truth is that every morning,
you get a 10-minute, you know,
a 10-minute screen, all the big news stories
and the day that you've won.
And instead of you lose, fun, winning,
you fucking get it all.
And so refraction works.
NFL Red Zone, don't watch all the games.
Don't watch any game or two.
I'm going to throw every touch now,
everything you play into your face all the time.
And so then we get to go, awesome.
Now, play my 80-hour game.
And you're playing this.
I don't know what you are asking me to do.
Because the entire day has been sliced
across all these different things.
The context-shipping, the brain-shipping.
We have to figure out how to evolve as an art board
to start an action to create the consumption habitat.
I'll share something.
I don't know if I mentioned this to you,
but I couldn't bring my family down in L.A.
to the new Ben Affleck,
that dated movie.
The main characters tell the audience
to plot four times during the movie.
They literally have to go, all right,
I remember the reason we're going in here to do this thing.
It's because of all this shit that just happened.
Because you're so distracted with your phone
that the characters have to tell me what's going on.
It's changing the way you create.
It's changing the way you create.
It's going to be a challenge in your life.
It's so easy to get.
It's a lot of time.
But I couldn't say,
the average time you're going to be
about half an hour into like an hour or two hours.
That's quite a lot.
Yeah, absolutely.
I was looking at things like, you know,
the idea that, hey, we've got a mechanic
that if you can't complete this part of it,
you can't just go to the computer for you.
Right?
When we're seeing those types of things
come into play and into fashion
where it takes away, then,
it takes away agency.
Right?
We made that part of it.
So I didn't say to you ten,
you used to say,
I don't want you to hear all of my story.
It's not my intention for what I'm going to do.
So when we're thinking about the types of games
that are coming out there,
if you buy more of them,
are not kind of leaning into that.
They're more traditional type of games
or like this more personal one for you
versus just about messing with all the data.
You find that .
Yeah, there are a lot that actually line up that.
Yeah, I mean, I think that you can see the market
responding to these changes slowly.
You know, everyone's taking a lot more notice
of what is going on in full blocks
and how much slower games are.
And maybe, in fact, as we talk about part of the hope
of things right-sizing themselves,
things going back to kind of where we started,
because it's not a coincidence
that if you look at the top 25 meta-critic games
every year now compared to 20 years ago,
16 to 17 of them now are in the games.
And a huge percentage of them are games
that are, you know, under, like,
in the last 15 to 20, out of the market.
So all these stuff, it's kind of, like,
when he is reacting, and then he is kind of reacting back.
So I think we're starting to see that.
Yeah.
Do you also then see the rise of those types of games
that also align with the size of the studios
that are coming online?
No longer, you know, if it turns 40 persons
or people in the games,
if it turns 5 persons, they're coming online
to create a more focused time frame
to ensure it occurs.
And that is definitely true,
but we always have to make sure to take in mind
that the shadow numbers versus the studio itself
because we have more and more
of these kind of nuclear studios
that are backed by external development.
And so with all of this,
this is part of the opinion
that you're competing for.
And the other piece of that is
that you're competing against low friction, right?
And the fact that this device is moving all the time
and is always hanging your brain
regardless of what you're doing.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
But I don't have that fancy-ass jacket.
I don't know.
And so that's what you're competing with.
You're no longer competing with games.
You're competing with everyone.
You'll see that generic resolution
that don't forgets,
and you're not going to faire it.
I don't mean it would've been a definitely
tuvdududududududududududududududududududududuvdudududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududududu enniddzi
四 갈iser
And because every 10 years they go, well, that was a good run.
You can do a game, but clearly on your way out, because my big idea didn't work, and so on and so forth.
We have been doing cycles before, we have still in the industry that, because it has existed here in the generation of a single person,
and it's starting to be young, and it's still working with us today, we still, as white as not as we are,
sometimes, when you put the stigma of games onto it, or in some cases you don't have the stigma of games,
you can't have a problem with people, people aren't dismissive of it, right?
They're pretty keen, regardless of the fact that children are raised, and they're still, they don't bring people to those people.
So we've been through this before, and we have some, you know, some ways to go ahead and deal with those changes,
but they are hard, because you tend to look at them predominantly, as we were talking earlier,
from, you know, one point of view, specifically geographically, here in the United States.
So talk a little bit more about what you're sitting on here, in terms of, you know,
while we're seeing that compression here, what we've seen happening on both of you,
we've seen more smaller students, we've seen collectors coming into play,
new student development and all this, coming back, share with us a little bit.
Yeah, I mean, the numbers are enormous, you know, a really interesting thing is the point of how much it's, again, growing,
and taking a global perspective is, I have a strong point of view, and this is not originally mine,
I give the credit to Ken White and the Game Industry Coffee Chat, who did a very, very...
Is that here?
Yay!
Yay!
Yeah!
Yay!
Yay!
Well, that was a great experience of holding down, so they're a wonderful organization that you should support,
and they do all kinds of extremely thoughtful work, and one of those was taking the most exhausted look
that I've ever seen top-down, and you know, well, how many people actually work in games?
And it's kind of telling you, well, there, how many people do you think work in games?
Somebody throw them in the back.
300,000?
300,000?
Yeah.
So, that's what I thought, and even when I do tops-down, right, with what I can chart,
and I track, you know, 5,000 studios, and I only track those that have hired somebody in 18 months,
I did the best bottoms I could do, and I came to, like, 300,000.
What they did, through a tops-down, suggests that that number is, like, 750,000 people or more,
and that shocked me at first.
But then when you take a look back, and many people, I'm sure Kenny may post about this,
maybe after this event or later, when you look at all the people who are in games, direct, indirect,
in places where we have very poor tracking, like India and China contractors,
people with types of roles that don't get tabulated, and this is, like, all stuff that the governments
themselves are saving for stats, it's a lot more people.
So, I won't belabor the point, but just to say, here's one for you, Chris.
How many people were at the first GDC, and you're like, oh, my gosh.
Eight.
We were at the first GDC, my goodness.
I don't know, I look good for 90, huh?
No, I mean, because it's held in San Jose, we could fit, we could pretty much the entire industry
into the Fairmont blogging bar, anybody who remember that?
So, just to say, again, anyone here who's known me for 10 seconds knows that I say every single,
every single person, sometimes the tears of eyes when I look at that after a very tough story,
every layout cuts me deep, but, again, looking at glass half full, the number of people in the book
is astronomical, and, again, victims of own success.
So, like, just, I hold both of those things inside of me the same thing, you know?
And we're just going to be telling you, right?
Because if anything, this is something that happens, I've lost my job before as well, right?
I mean, we can understand the whole thing that we're taking people,
and I don't know where you're coming from, that's not something that is never, ever trivialized.
And if you can't, Peter, you're homeless, like, you probably would tell anyone to shove the statistics,
you probably should, but somewhere deep for me, by the humanistic opinion,
that a developer in Chile or a developer in Vietnam, I see that as no different in my eyes
than a developer in San Jose, but, of course, it is indivisible time.
Yeah, absolutely. You know, I was privileged enough to talk to a developer,
a company CCO from New York and Africa, and we shared with you,
your studio had picked up a, like, a principal contract.
It's the first time it ever happened, right?
And I found it amazing, you know, congratulations, you know, incredible work,
and we started talking about, you know, democratization of the nation and access to companies and everything,
and you said, hey, you think so, but when you also work in a region where a lot of families survive
through, let's say, food service, and kids keep spending four hours a day fetching water,
that's four hours a day they're not learning the program,
four hours a day they're not doing it, four hours a day they're not doing it.
And, of course, you know, as Americans, you know, I can't do those episodes,
I like a lot of characters, right?
These are all the things that impact us, and impact us a good thing.
So, sometimes when we look outside ourselves and say, you know,
how are we presenting and showing up every day to do this type of work,
and to be in a space where maybe we don't get to do the exact job we want to do,
and as far as maybe we have to take the other job in the industry,
and maybe it'll be interesting, but all of a sudden, you're like, you know, this is actually cool, right?
So, we talked a bit about the meldability of our own, you know, like, biases,
but I lean into that a little bit more.
Yeah, I mean, every single day that you spend is a day spent building skills.
It's like, I don't look back on the fact that I had been working games until 38,
it was a waste of time, it was a threat that I did something wrong.
And, like, if I could change one thing, it's every time someone comes up to me,
and they almost, I feel like they, like, need to apologize to me,
that they, like, lost their job in games, and they had to take something to do something else.
And I'm like, you know, nobody gets to define what your status is,
or your relationship with the industry, except for you.
And, like, all I care about is that you basically have food on the table,
and that's all I really care about.
So, I think you've been working so hard on yourself.
I agree, 100%.
But you're also triggering another thought.
Tell me what you're, we were talking about your first job, like, the things that you had to do, right?
Let's talk about that for a moment that led to, you know, where you are when you're talking about.
Oh, well, yeah, no, Chris and I were talking about, oh, God, like, all the things that having,
I've never thought that any job was too small for me ever.
So, when I was young, whether that was, like, mowing lawns and plowing snow,
or, like, I started my sophomore year of high school basically being, like, an office go-over.
And I had that job all through my sophomore year of college.
I actually was expressing regret that, like, I wish more of those kind of male-mover entry jobs
actually existed for people because they wanted them to go.
But, yeah, I don't have done anything to basically get myself on that way.
And it was the same for me.
When I started Sun Microsystem, I was the very first district sales support representative.
So, I made coffee, and I picked up dry things with the sales people,
and I made actual photocopies of presentations that went into these things called binders,
and that green record was interesting, and, you know, it's just constantly putting yourself out there,
constantly showing up, constantly moving into that.
And nobody gets anywhere in this world on their own ever, forever.
And so, I know I am here, I know you and I have talked about this many times.
We are also here by the grace of other people, by people needing, by people willing to listen, right?
And so, part of what we can do for each other as a community is to show up,
even when we may be the ones that are facing some of that uncertainty or a difficult situation.
Sometimes, it's just being a voice of civility, a voice of, you know, cheerleading,
and letting people know that it's okay, it's okay to be vulnerable, it's okay to be able to face it.
And, you know, offer any sort of moral support to help people through this.
Sometimes, all people need is just to hear a kind of word or have that chance.
It just takes one break, and, like, you know, when you've seen as many instances as I have,
it's like, you know, there's still a lot of people in tough situations.
But, like, for anyone out there who's been looking a long time where it's hard, it just takes a while.
It takes, on average, eight months these days, and you wouldn't believe how many people I know
who felt like they were on, like, the last peg where they weren't going to figure out, and they did.
And so, I think everyone often loses or says toxic positivity, whatever the hell that means.
But it's like, I feel like, like, I think that, you know, the emotional side and support side of things matters
as much as any kind of tool or spreadsheet.
Sometimes, stuff that keeps people going until they get there.
So, it's sort of talking about the shade of recovery.
So, the numbers are looking better in terms of how the placement is going to be.
They all have, they have a positive tendency to buy in this measure that these results are on that report.
Yeah, no, I would again say that, like, you know, there are 15,000 to 25,000 placements a year.
That is up to anyone who are in 2022.
The number of people I see in places, in most disciplines, with a few exceptions that are having a hard time,
those are things that are better in general now than they were one or two years ago.
I would probably add that by saying again, you said that you were really honest.
I think there are some hard limits on how many opportunities they are, and the demand is much greater.
But I would again say that people who are moving at everything across the board are seeing better outcomes now
than people that I've seen in a year or two ago.
And so, in the end, those trends seem to have kind of took the route
through this massive kind of resistance that we go forward versus this massive kind of grade that we saw just two or three years ago,
where it felt like everything was kind of collapsed over,
that we have been getting right-sized or unjustified what we saw,
and getting rid of that kind of cycle.
Oh, for a pretty exuberant, you know, you know,
I do think there are two caveats.
There are still things I'm challenged about,
the early career people who have a few years experience or less,
and people who are in the experience range of like 45, 50 plus,
but I'm going to say to your point, Chris,
that we know the letter exclusively names challenges
versus things that are challenges for everybody.
I think that both of those age ranges, those are problems that draw the value of the system we see
in other sectors as well and not just exclusively.
Let's just talk a little bit about the road ahead.
We talked about some of the bullet points,
but some of the trends that we think are going to kind of break and change the way we look at the industry going forward.
So, first, eight-hour sub-$40 games are going to rise up again and become parts.
Actually, I see a significant portion of the market.
One of the things I found super interesting in taking up with the numbers as well is,
and then walking around BBC Plus, I've walked on the floor and I'm like,
where are all the people who are developing?
Where are the eight-tier publishers like?
They seem to have been hollowed out because we ran to the edges.
We had a massive amount of indie games. Amazing.
But the revenue they could generate was so small because of the money,
so there was a very large noise dissimulation.
And if you kind of traverse this, you know,
there's no way in this land to the triple-A side,
where much less confident they're taking the lion's share of the market.
So, when we talk about the consumption patterns that we don't wire, right,
or in the way we can still do that information,
it makes sense now that we're saying,
you know what?
I'm going to say that you need all the time to have an 80-hour game like this.
Thank goodness you're here. Anybody play that?
Please don't use something you played that.
Please raise your hand if you played that game.
Okay, if you haven't, shame on all of you.
It is the funniest slapformer.
It's so stupidly hysterical.
It is so amazing.
And I was like, that was an awesome three hours and $10 well spent.
Like, the value exchange isn't the time, right,
of the golden path to the table.
The time you have .
And that seems .
I'm starting to see what happens.
A lot of things coming out from smaller schools
that are starting to wrap up .
It's the right size.
And it's something I think you're good about
because it solves several problems at the same time.
Like, we've had the same sticky prices in the industry since 1985.
Like, the first time I went with my parents and grandparents
to buy a Nintendo game.
After that Nintendo on Christmas morning,
it was $50 for a part, right?
And then now, right, there are some $70 games.
Most are 60.
So, 30 years, 40 years, I beg your pardon,
of what should be for inflation a $200 game.
Now you're going to sell it for $10 more.
And so, but the production costs .
So it solves the problem of making a game that is inside .
It also tries to solve all the stuff you said about the demand challenge
and how many people have to finish something.
Especially, you know, .
And again, for the demand side,
I'm out on the supply side.
Which is like, it is also true that there are just too,
I can't believe this, there are just too many games.
And there's no way that everyone can .
But, you know, I think about the baseline of, like, you know,
what might be reasonable.
And so, like, the demand supply needs to come back in.
But I think this is a big part of thinking .
All right.
So, I think it's solved .
Right?
It's also thinking differently about where we publish
and how we publish, right?
So, we start to think about it in terms of devices.
We start to think about the web.
I am telling you all that you need to be looking at HTML5
and stuff that you can do in my own browser,
which every single phone and every device that you have
on your person right now can run that.
And you have the opportunity to create experiences that mean that.
So, too many games through those very traditional channels
in the big industry.
So, how do you start creating new experiences across these types
of platforms to find .
Yeah.
I mean, I think, again, there's somewhere in between
that .
But there's also other pie charts that you're showing.
Chris, I do have a point of view that it's like,
if you're just delivering the right type of titles,
almost like, you know, a whole 2.0 or 3.0
that you want for things like .
And you need a lot of smart people .
There's a lot more consumption to track down and have it
net added for people who will start to choose that
over other things that they can do instead.
Absolutely.
Okay.
Matching those consumption patterns.
Again, stop fighting that tide.
Thank you.
Stop fighting that tide and let's go ahead and figure out
how we're going to create experiences that are still
valuable right to .
It may not require .
You know, for a long time, the gentleman in the audience here
who was at the top was going to ask this wonderful question
about, you know, when you talk about fractional experiences,
how are you able to convey all of the emotions,
the story that you want if all of the assumptions are tiny.
And everyone knows that it's the Hemingway six-word story, right?
Baby shoes for sale, never worn.
Six words.
You know everything about a party and a loss and traffic.
So, don't just confuse that because the other people
are telling stories without ability to tell stories to each other.
So, you need to think more deeply about what it is that we are creating
and how we need people, where they are instead of expecting
to also be who we are.
Yeah, I mean, when I think about all the things that are tools
and tools that I want to be the most optimistic,
and I think some of them are optimistic and pessimistic.
I think the ability to do that stuff to get exactly like you say,
Chris, closer to that emotional impact and quality,
better and shorter package or tighter experience,
that's the way the culture is solving again.
That's the .
We're going to run that as .
So, AI to accelerate, not replace .
Okay?
These students learn about them.
They're not going away from us.
Okay?
So, we need to use them to our best ability to accelerate your superpower
and to tell the story, making art, making nature for each other.
If you can take, you know, a tool path that allows you
to create the rigging for a model and give back 30% to an artist
to now animate, that's more animation, more engagement,
more circle, all those things.
So, how do you really unintegrate this
of our development process to allow you to put more
of yourself into this experience?
The more that we can all be informed about any of these things,
and I never want any tool to displace a person, right?
The more each of us can engage and be informed,
we can try to have a part in steering it towards what we want
rather than just having other people force them.
Yeah.
And then one thing, Peter, I'll go ahead and throw out there.
Any time somebody shows you a video,
oh, look, I can drive in this endless world
and put all this stuff in it generates,
and I'm like, drive back where we can.
And then, oh, well, I'm like, ah, no.
It's, I can do that in a game, but I can't do that in a frame,
right, inference, or, you know, inferred frame.
Endless fun is great.
Yeah.
Endless.
And also, like, endless slap of, like, five-minute videos
or 30-second videos of people fighting each other
and hitting that and the other.
Like, I really believe, and I know you do, Chris, too,
but I want to do more of this stuff.
It's going to bring this, like, human touch,
that differentiation versus all that about each other.
Exactly.
I mean, remember, like, older games,
older sisters, you were like, oh, look at the clip.
Look at the logic.
That sounds like.
We can see the volume spilling in the right of the head, right?
How, how do we let ourselves begin to go,
ah, that person's forearms with broad trains,
you know?
All right.
Let's not do that.
Okay.
Let's do that.
Let's cover .
Maybe the path of .
No, no, I do not.
And I've seen some big proxy things.
You know, a friend of ours, Eden, who's a pragma,
and they have a tool, first look,
but really because you're doing a nice job of having people
connect with their audiences.
And I think, again, if I want to look
through my most optimistic view of this,
I very convincingly believe that we are at like D1.0
or at least D1.5 of really understanding
how to engage with audiences
and try to bring them to things
they might not know that they want to play.
And again, I keep reading a pie graph
from that person.
I'm going to share my pie.
We do too much.
Thank you.
I do like modern inkling on that.
People who go out there
and they do the gaming hands
and they do their own projects
and they do stuff with other people.
But at the end of the day,
it's not private science
in that you don't have tangible things
that will get you where you want
over an opportunity.
You need skill credentials.
You need experience
that should show other people.
We need connections
to other human beings
so we get the opportunity.
And anything you can do
in a system in fact
is that it takes a lot of time.
And an excellent point. Do not discount the effectiveness and importance of a network of people and professionals. Be present, communicate, plan yourself to others. Make sure, don't ever confuse kindness for weakness.
Some of you wrote in Queens, New York, that's a problem. So, yes, be in the LinkedIn profile. The next big thing, the next big thing, the next big thing across the nation is coming from communities like the ones that sit in front of them.
You know this to be true, right? Because you have the ability, the desire, the tools, the community to find each other and build those things.
I know we're going to run out of time and so we want to make sure that even if we can't do computing, we're going to get it forward together so you can bombard every one of the questions that you need to.
And then hopefully you get an out part of our business. Thanks, bro.
You got it? That's when it's like, yeah, I'll do something. I'm just going to go down the hall there.
You got it, right? These are the big forces that are, that are, are mailed, right?
Demonstrates for information, modernization of hardware, access to communities, communication, connectivity, and web.
These are all basically push to zero. The barrier to entry is as low as it's ever been.
I'm going to share this last week where our current funnel, Gen Z and Gen Alphans, they're both first.
They're ranking consoles, they're both loaded phones, but we have this graphic console.
We're still playing with games, right?
Maybe you should start to press open, maybe you can buy it out, right?
Their games are second or third in their priority, but they're both first.
And they like second screen games, but here's the one you're all missing.
Gen Z's. Oh, Gen X's. Gen X's, right?
And let me tell you why they are the perfect audience for it.
Their last catalog, the first official, they're living longer than their parents did.
They have more disposable income. I think it's a multi-billion dollar market opportunity for us.
They've become the best these times in the future.
And here's the thing about Gen X's.
They are the first transactional people.
In the era when you were growing up, everything was recorded.
Everything lasted a minute.
You have to understand how to manipulate that economy to its greatest effect.
They are primed to play in the way we have conditioned the rest of society to fractionally engage.
Who is developing experiences for them?
Who?
David!
David!
David!
David!
David!
We're there!
We're going to end with why we still believe.
There's a conversation that, you know,
and I'm here and I have many conversations
over 10 years talking about this stuff.
Because this is the outpouring of the organization.
Let's talk about, you know,
the way you're raising gamers at home
and the joy that's expressed all the time.
I love hearing those stories.
You know, how does that show up for you
when we see them these times?
Like, how does that sit in the sack of the notebook?
Well, I mean, the kids love games so much.
And I think about the fact that it is so exciting
to think about what type of experiences
they're going to have.
And the same thing that I think about how much
what games I played when I was their age
have shifted up until now.
And so it's like, it's really amazing to think
there's going to be the stuff that you and I love
during our lifetimes.
There's going to be a whole lot of stuff
that people in this room are going to figure out
and deliver and we don't even have that.
And maybe some of these go-backs
where people now get older have what they wanted.
So it's like, I'm just, I'm so excited to see
what people are going to make for them.
That's not the stuff they're playing now
that I can even imagine.
That they will be going crazy about the same
that you were going crazy about SNES or whatever.
Yeah, and except now they have parents
that are like, yeah, isn't that awesome?
Let's go do more of that.
And I was like, you know, that just sucks.
I can constantly be in the house.
It's like, what do you get the kids for the holidays?
That's a problem.
And we're going to share one last little
that I put here with you.
This is from our friend Don Taglow,
who has received a lifetime achievement
award this year.
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Woo!
Let me have to hear from Don
about the impact by taking ..
and it's ..
.
It ..
it ..
20 years ago, I got a letter from a woman who was playing Deadly Nights, and the first paragraph was your standard letter, this is so long ago, this was the Hebrew letter, it was my idea, and the first paragraph was your standard, thank you, I love your game, which never gets old, I love your game's best letters, but then the second paragraph says, actually your game changed my life because I was basically a prisoner in my own home,
and I was going to become more and more abusive, he had a fanatic jealousy, he refused to let me out of the house, he said, you're ready to let me turn on board, he became a prisoner, he really wanted to let me out of the house, and the one thing he didn't realize is that he said he had an appointment right here, and so I played here with the Nights, and I had my friendships, our group of friends were complaining about it, and I got to know him to be able to find out who I remember,
so I killed I know him over, and he died, I need to make sure he had to be able toาก and I'm afraid of to kill her and she got out of the house, and so she got out, and got to a private house, and got to a protected environment, and she was writing this environment, this letter herself saying, thank you, you're getting the
and they said, you've got to get away on help and he can kill you instead.
And so, she got out and got to a family house, got into a protected environment,
and she was writing this environment with this letter from there saying, thank you, we're giving you a few more.
We got together. And I've never forgotten that letter.
We promise you that the games we create have so much more
and the fact that you can create this art and want to share the stories of the world is truly critical.
I know I'm home every day, I know I'm also home.
Every day, we get to not only get towards inner presence in sorts of community,
but also get to experience it and support the world.
And so, again, your impact is much bigger than you can possibly imagine.
And, you know, again, it's still an incredible term to be a developer, right?
We have more ways to play, more schools, more community,
more players we have in the door.
And there's a lower description of it.
And, of course, make sure you're regaling yourself.
Always supporting the games.
This speaks volumes, by the way, to who Alvarez is.
Because we had a conversation, if you recall, about the games.
The selflessness and the joy that he has for the industry is incredibly humbling.
And it is so, it's not that we all go through this, but the way you're able to bring people,
I think it's just the most inspiring thing.
And that's why we love you, man.
And that's why we're so rich in service of the rest of us.
I mean, it's just absolutely incredible.
So make sure you're going to get the, and just bring in.
You know, I can just quickly say, is all of a sudden,
oh, it's a piece of it.
And I appreciate that.
And the last thing I want to say is, I just want to say,
like, one of the most touching things for me at any of these events is,
I really believe if everybody steps up to help each other,
we can fix even more of this stuff.
I'm so encouraged.
I'm going to take two or three examples.
I saw a group of developers in Mexico who can help step
step up for home conference to help people get jobs,
games, non-games.
A group in India who told me because of what our community
did for passes, they put budget together to get 25 passes
themselves for 74 years.
So there was a group in Europe.
We were getting together groups to help kids there learn how to code
so they can get games or non-games jobs.
And like, there's a lot of hard stuff that comes across my desk.
I get them, I swear, thoughts, and not an exaggeration.
At least 1,000 messages every week.
Across PM, I'll answer every single one.
And like, the amount of help and kindness that people are giving
to try to get people out of this rut is extraordinary.
So at the end of the day, the biggest reason you should be optimistic
is the people in the space themselves who can deeply embody each other.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
With that, I want to thank you all for letting us share our stories
and discounted with how many sad guys.
All right, let's go drink!
.
.
.
.
.
.
