who's had that problem before. So, raise your hand if you made a change to a project before,
thinking it would make you better, but nothing actually got faster.
Okay, great. Thank God you're all for keeping this up.
So, you're in the right room. Make sure I am soon. Who am I?
So, my name's John French. I'm a developer evangelist at Palm.
And the short version of my job description is I help people to make more efficient mobile games.
Now, sometimes that means sharing best practice. Other times it means helping people to use our performance studio analysis tools.
Or sometimes it's my job to help developers to make more efficient games with whatever tools that they're all using,
such as Unreal, Godot, or Unity.
Now, today it means doing a little bit more free. I'm going to show you a little bit about how our developer use work,
and the kinds of performance issues that they're sensitive to.
I'm going to show you how you can use our profiling tools to find out if you're having a problem like that in your project.
And I'm going to show you a couple of solutions in Unity that can help you avoid those kinds of issues in your game.
So, this talk is aimed at entry-level game developers, people who are new to mobile development.
So I won't be getting super technical, and specifically I'm going to be talking about Unity.
However, even if that's not you, if you're a fully interested in graphics optimization, then hopefully you'll still find this talk useful.
But, why bother? Unity is optimized, and those are fast. So why do any of this?
You're going to hear a lot today about what the newest devices are capable of, which is brilliant, it's great.
And that's not what people have in their pockets right now. It's more likely to be a device that they bought a few years ago, and plan to be for a few years more.
For example, what we hear from developers is that their target min spec is devices that are up to six years old.
And the challenge to that is that the capabilities of those devices are very hugely variable.
Meaning that if the question is, why bother doing this? Why pay attention to mobile optimization at this level?
Then the answer is that a typical person with a typical device can play your game at all.
So that's the why. What's the how?
So, inside Unity, it's relatively straightforward to work out what your game is doing by using Unity's built-in analysis tools.
So, the Profiler, the Frame Debugger, and RenderGraph.
Now, RenderGraph might be new to you if you haven't used URP or HDRP before.
Basically, it can be used to check how Unity's scriptable render pipeline is using the GPU, and all of it is doing it.
It's pretty useful.
These are tools that can tell you what the application is doing.
They're comprehensive, they're convenient, and in most cases, these should be your first thoughtful.
However, when it's time to test your game on that six-year-old device,
when you install it, you connect the Profiler, and it's slow.
Why?
Unity knows that the GPU is taking too long, and it doesn't necessarily know why.
This is the hardware side.
If you want to know what hardware is doing, this one, the R analysis tools, and the equivalent tools from other device vendors, can come in very handy.
So, this is R Performance Studio. It's a suite of free tools for profiling mobile games running on R hardware.
The two tools from Performance Studio that I'm going to be talking about most today are Frame Advisor, which works in a similar way to Unity's Frame Debugger,
except that I've found it can sometimes show attachments that the Frame Debugger can't.
As a result, a lot of the captures of shadow maps and post-processing tool passes in this tool.
Those will pay for the Frame Defiler.
And then there's Streamline, which is our sample-based profiler, which sums the hardware at times intervals,
and this can be useful for working out what a GPU is spending its time working on.
Which is what we want, because we want to know why the GPU time is so high, and how we can bring it down.
So, to do that, we need to have an idea of what the GPU is doing.
So that we know what we're looking at and we don't have to spot a problem.
So what is the GPU?
In simple terms, the render pipeline for a GPU involves two main workloads,
Geometry Processing and Fragment Processing.
Geometry Processing involves converting vertex data into screen-based creatives.
Those printed shapes are then rasterized into fragments,
where a fragment is a sample of data that's used to work out what color each pixel should be.
So, in simple terms, and in very simple terms, that's what we're looking at.
Geometry Processing followed by Fragment Processing.
However, there are a couple of ways in which mobile GPUs are different to, say, a desktop GPU.
A desktop GPU has lots of power and it's actively cooled, so it can try to run as fast as it can.
However, in a phone, nothing runs at maximum.
It's firmly constrained by how much heat it's able to get rid of under a sustained load.
So, for a phone, the general idea is to not run at maximum.
It's to avoid doing things that create heat.
Heat is a bipolar power.
And one of those power-hungry things a GPU can do is access the RAM.
Which, if your frame bumper covers the entire screen and has to be kept off-chip in RAM,
that's going to happen a lot.
It is bad for phones, which most of the time are going to need to process a lot of pixels,
but not necessarily a lot of triangles.
So, the solution to this is to split up the screen into small tiles,
allowing frapplement processing to take place on-chip,
and avoiding the heavy cost of accessing the RAM.
So, this is a tile-based render pipeline which most mobile GPUs and low-power devices use.
The trade-off for that, though, is that for this to work, the GPU now needs to know which triangles contribute to which tiles.
Which adds an extra overhead.
This is the thing.
And it's one of the reasons that mobile GPUs can be more sensitive to geometry.
Because every triangle has an increased cost now in GPU cycles and in every bandwidth.
Because that geometry output now needs to be kept in RAM.
It's too big to be kept in one chip.
Okay.
So that's basic GPU pipeline.
What does that look like when you're looking at the data?
Well, in Streamline, our sample-based profile, it might look something like this.
Which can be a bit much.
Until you know what it is you're looking at, and then it can start to be very useful.
So Streamline provides a huge amount of information about what the GPU is spending its time doing.
Which is what we need to know.
But to make use of it, we need to know what we're looking at.
And if you zoom in, and you start to look at the data at the frame level,
it starts to make more sense.
So this is a cross-section of the work that's required to render one frame.
And at this level, you can start to see the distinct stages of pipeline.
But there's a lot going on.
So what are we looking at?
Well, this is a frame from our feature demo.
So we've got a demo table at the back of the room.
And that's running with this game.
And it took this GPU, which was in a low-power device, which is a low-power tablet,
about 50 milliseconds to render that frame.
Now, the first job in Streamline is to work out whether frame's workload starts and ends.
And you can usually spot the repeating patterns that make up one frame.
In this case, I'm looking for a geometry load to start and frame,
and I lay the depth test at the end.
That depth test is actually a quirk of URP.
But at the peak, it happens because MGUI, so Unity's whole foreign UI system,
happens in a separate class to everything else.
It's possible to get rid of that by modifying the URP scripts,
but that can sometimes break the UI.
For today, at least, it's a useful bookmark
to mark the repeating point in the frame.
You might also just have a gap of inactivity
if you're running under Vsync, which can be helpful as well.
So, what's in here?
So, looking in the GPU usage chart in Streamline,
there's the main geometry workload at the start of the frame,
and in this case, it's the three orange spikes at the start there.
So, these are three geometry render passes,
two shadow maps, and then opaque geometry.
The fragment queue, which is the blue line,
is then active for each of those shadow maps,
and then there's the bulk of the fragment shading workload
that comes after that to colour the opaque geometry.
About halfway through the frame, there's a later depth test,
and if you look in the render graph,
we know that there's a depth write that happens
for transparent objects.
So, we can see that that's what that depth test is.
And that the small geometry load follows it
is for those transparent objects.
After this, there's another geometry load later in the frame.
It's a surprisingly big one.
In this case, it's to render in-game path path and the UI.
And when we look in Frame Advisor,
we can see why it's a big spike.
Frame Advisor shows the meshes of your geometry,
or geometry, and in this case, they're quite high detail.
Post-processing can be a little harder to swap in 3D lines,
but in this case, throughout the middle of the frame,
we've got multiple phases where
the fragment processing is high,
the width of its utilization is high,
and the occluding quadrate is that 100%.
So, the occluding quadrate refers to a percentage
of 2x2 pixel blocks, quads,
that survive early depth testing.
Now, this can sometimes be an indicator of post-processing,
where you've got a full screen of occluding quads,
but no other colour.
Checking in the render graph,
that confirms it.
We've got passes for blue, depth of field,
amongst others.
And then that depth test at the end,
which we know is done before the final in GUI pass.
Right.
So, we're oriented.
We kind of know what the GPU is doing,
and we kind of know what that looks like in Streamline now.
How does any of that help you?
Well, let's start with a problem.
So, mobile GPUs can be sensitive to complex geometry.
So, what does a geometry problem look like in Streamline?
Well, let's create a problem and see.
So, this is a Streamline capture from a scene
that's displaying 7 million triangles.
So, too many.
And when you look at the GPU workload,
it's a geometry bias, obviously.
But, in your game, in a normal game,
it's unlikely to be that obvious.
So, what are the other signs that there's too much geometry?
We'll see.
So, one metric to check is the FPK buffer.
So, FPK buffer, it's a bit of a misnomer in this context,
in that it stands for form, fix, or kill.
So, this is an ARM-specific optimization
that prevents fragment shading
if it thinks that that fragment will end up being hidden.
So, it's not directly to do with geometry,
but the forward pixel-kill buffer is useful
because it's an indicator of the percentage of rasterized pods
that are ready to be fragment shaded.
So, it's about to prove it.
Now, ideally, this buffer, which is the right blue line,
it would be 4 or 5-utilized.
Here, it stands for its time around 5% or less.
Now, there are other reasons
that it could be underutilized.
For example, if the screen is mostly empty.
But, in this case, we know it's geometry by the way.
So, once we know it's our problem,
what can we do about it?
Well, let's look at this scene
and see what 7 million triangles of geometry gets us
in visual quality
and see if there's an opportunity to simplify it.
So, that's the scene.
It's a grey screen,
and it took 69 milliseconds to render it.
So, what this is,
it's a bunch of objects
that are including objects in front of it.
Obviously, this is not typical,
but the point of this
is that it highlights an important consideration,
which is that a lot of the GPU's efficiency
comes from removing work
that doesn't need to be done
as fairly as possible.
With geometry,
if the application gives the GPU
all of the scene's geometry,
then it's up to the GPU
to work out what is and is not visible.
Now, some of this will be colored
because it's outside the view processing
or because it's facing the wrong way.
Some of it will be colored
because it's too small to see.
After which,
you can start with more geometry
that's hidden by other objects
with depth testing,
which, in this example,
because there's so much to work through,
is about halfway through
a very long frame.
The answer here is to give less geometry
to the GPU in the first place,
so we need to do some coloring.
Now, the coloring options in Unity
can sometimes be a little bit confusing.
In reality, they're fairly simple.
You basically have two built-in options
for coloring in Unity.
Base culling, which happens on CPU,
and GPU-based occlusion culling,
which happens on GPU.
Base culling works by marking objects
with static occluders.
These are objects that will hide other objects.
Objects can also be static occlude,
where they are non-moving objects
that can be hidden by other non-moving objects.
An object doesn't have to be static to be occluded.
In the case of moving objects,
you can hide them by enabling dynamic occlusion
on a mesh renderer of components.
And then there are occlusion area view bodies.
So these are bounds in which occlusion data
will be calculated what it takes.
So if you don't use one of these,
occlusion cells will only be calculated
in the areas between objects,
which looks like that.
And if the camera isn't inside one of those blue cells,
if it's on the outside of all your geometry looking in,
that's not going to work.
View volumes force a specific area to be baked,
which can be good for either making sure
that your camera is a clean one,
or making sure that you don't bake
a geometry that you don't actually need.
Once you've done all of that,
if you go to the visualisation tab
and select the camera that has
the fusion culling enable line,
you'll get this,
which in the game turns 7mm triangle into 55mm.
So that's baked culling.
If you're using URP,
then GPU occlusion culling is an option as well.
Now, this is not occlusion culling in the sense
that we're giving everything to the GPU
and waiting for it to work it out on its own,
which is kind of the problem we had before.
Instead, we're using the GPU as a data processor
to perform culling calculations in a compute shader.
It's noticeably simple to set up.
In Unity GPU occlusion culling,
is actually just one of the checkbox.
But you'll need to be using the GPU resident drawer
for it to work.
The resident drawer is not in the render pipeline access,
but stores rendering data on the GPU.
To use it, you'll need to change batch render
to keep all, disable static batching if you're using it,
and turn on the SRP batcher.
This is well documented in Unity's box,
so don't worry too much about remembering that,
but that's just what you have to do for it.
Now, if your scene is large,
with a large number of objects,
that on its own might give you a pause,
so it's worth trying.
It also allows you to turn on GPU occlusion culling,
which looks like this,
when you turn on the occlusion overlay
.
And in Streamline,
you can see that even though we're now doing more work
on GPU,
it's much faster than the 6.9 seconds
and so on before,
and it's well done with V-sync,
which is what that gap is.
Okay.
So that's the geometry side.
What about the fragment side?
Just like the geometry,
decreasing fragment efficiency mostly involves
avoiding doing more work if you need to.
So let's call this out.
Overdraw.
The tab that I've done a lot of my testing on this talk
has a resolution of 1340 by 800,
meaning that if I'm running at a native resolution,
then I have to draw about a million pixels
to render a frame.
And in Streamline,
if I zoom in on a frame with various tools going on,
such as the flash screen,
that's what I'm getting,
around a million pixels.
Now, in a normal project,
that pixel count's going to be a lot higher
because the screen is usually going to be drawn
more than once
in multiple random parts.
So think of the pixel count
as the total output for the frame.
And whether or not that's a problem
depends on the amount of work that goes
into colouring each of those pixels,
and that's where fragment processing comes in.
So, an ideal ratio of fragment threads to output pixels
would be one-to-one.
So one invocation of the fragment shader
to work out what colour a pixel needs to be.
Overdraw happens when it takes more than one fragment thread
to colour one pixel.
Now, in some cases, that's intentional.
The multi-sample anti-aliasing, for example,
uses multiple samples to resolve the pixel's colour
instead of just one.
However, there are other situations
where you can end up with overdraw
that you don't want.
So transparent materials can cause unwanted overdraw,
and that includes sprites with a transparent background.
So in FrameAdvisor, we have an overdraw attachment mode
that can be used to visualise overdraw as count,
where a sprite with a transparent background
implies shading across the full area of the sprite.
You can see that there.
And in Streamline, looking at the overdraw charts,
you can see that we've got reading
around 1.5 threads per pixel on average.
An alternative to using a transparent shader
which can discard transparent pixels
below a certain threshold.
You'll typically see this kind of effect on the foliage.
However, the drawback of that
is that the fraction shader needs to run
before a pixel can be discarded.
So depending on the shader and the use case,
you could end up introducing late-step testing.
For sprites, a solution is to use
Unity's built-in sprite editor
to create a sprite layer.
So this works, and in FrameAdvisor,
you can see the difference it makes.
So instead of the square now,
you can see the shape of the object in each render.
It reduces the area that needs to be shaded more than once.
And in Streamline, you can see that the overdraw value
is now much closer to that ideal one.
Now, if you've used sprites in Unity before,
then you probably already know
that I'm talking about the default behaviour.
If you import a sprite in Unity,
it automatically generates a tight mesh to render it on.
Which is great.
It's automatic.
And compared to my version,
which is a bit rough,
it leaves even fewer transparent pixels at the edges.
So theoretically,
overdraw should go down.
But when I check in Streamline,
it's gone up for 1.35.
Why?
The reason has to do with the makeup of the mesh
and a different type of overdraw,
quad overdraw.
So what is quad overdraw?
Fragrants are rasterized and shaded in 2x2 pixel quads.
This is so that GPU can recognize the relative distance
between two fragments against the texture,
so you calculate mid-maps.
Now, a fully utilized quad rasterizes 4 pixels,
while an underutilized quad has fewer.
This is a partial quad.
It'll typically get a partial quad along the edges of triangles,
and a certain number of these is inevitable.
But a high degree of quad overdraw
means that more quads have been used
to color the same number of pixels,
wasting effort.
This means that particular patterns of geometry,
such as long thin triangles,
can be especially wasteful.
So we had a real use case
where developers were getting bad performance
by drawing a circle using a fan method,
because the dense conversion of thin triangles
was causing an increase in quad overdraw.
And in this case,
the mesh sprite that you used to generate the 4B
causes a similar problem.
The triangles are long and thin,
and when they converge,
there's likely to be an increase
in the number of quads that make
to render those pixels.
The solution here is about to be easy.
Just check the sprite that UNT makes for you,
the sprite mesh that UNT makes for you,
and consider replacing it if you need it.
So, we've talked about how geometry can cause issues on mobile,
due to bandwidth,
so the extra cost of getting triangles.
We've talked about how overbore
could work excess rapid shading
by working harder to render the same pixels.
Next, I want to talk about the type of graphical workload
that does both of those things,
micro triangles.
So, micro triangles are primitives
that have a handful of pixels,
and you'll typically get them in dense,
complex geometry.
They're generally bad for all kinds of GPUs,
but they're especially bad for mobile GPUs.
This is because on the geometry side of the pipeline,
you have that fixed cost for binning each triangle.
So, you have more triangles at the starting point,
so the binning workload is going to be higher.
But at the same time, on the fragment side,
more small triangles means less coverage for each
in terms of the actual essence of the string,
and it seems higher for an overall.
So, the fixed cost now has a bad return,
because every triangle will get thin,
which only returns a few pixels,
which means that everything gets a bit worse.
How do you sell if you've got a micro triangle?
An easy rule of thumb is a measure of 10 pixels
of coverage per triangle,
after which the triangle is going to become
the worse and worse investment,
the smaller it gets.
But, soon you don't physically measure all your triangles,
what are the data that says?
So, in Streamline, there are a lot of data points
that can suggest that micro triangles are causing you a problem.
Low FDK buffy utilization suggests that fragments
are being shaded faster than they can be rasterized.
High sample culling rate means that you've got triangles
that are so small they're not touching a sample point.
This is already bad, but what it means is you've got
slightly larger triangles that are touching at least one.
Also, high partial coverage rates,
So, this is the percentage of quads that aren't quite utilised,
meaning that they have anything for them.
And a high overdraw count, which means a high ratio of work
done with decarbonate technology.
So, that's why we don't like counteract models,
what can you do with that?
The short answer is LODs.
You probably already know what LODs are,
they're a level of detail matches that can be used to swap out
compact models for simple lines as they get further away.
Which can be tricky, what can be tricky with LODs is
if you don't do the start of your project,
you don't have to sort it out later.
So, if you didn't do that,
or if you didn't make your meshes yourself,
so you bought them, what else can you do?
So, mesh LODs is a relatively new feature in Unity 6.2 and higher.
Essentially, it's an import setting that creates simplified versions of your meshes.
So, you just select your model to click Generate Mesh LODs and then click File.
You don't need LOD groups for it, it's automatic.
It just works based on a threshold setting in the Quality Settings window.
It works by analysing the mesh and adding a new set of indices to its index buffer.
So, the mesh's vertices are the points between which all the primitive shapes are drawn.
Creating new sets of indices allows a simpler set of triangles to be drawn using the same set of vertices.
However, it's not perfect.
So, it works better with certain shapes than others.
An option like Decimates in Blender is always going to look better.
It also doesn't work with GPU instancing or with combined meshes.
So, you might find yourself in a position where you're trading draw calls for triangles.
So, your mileage might vary, but as a reversible option, it's an easy decision to try.
And that's what mobile optimisation is likely to be for you.
A series of good or bad decisions to add up to good or bad performance.
So, what's the real impact of that?
So, remember that our game demo was taking about 50 milliseconds to render a frame.
We didn't know why.
Now that I can check and measure what the GPU is doing, I'm going to make a couple of changes.
We can do this quickly because I'm nearly at a time.
So, first, the streamline showed me that there's a depth test in the middle of the frame.
Generally, we want to avoid late-depth testing.
And this one's caused by setting the depth test loading in the machine to ARCA Ocase.
So, we can set that to ARCA TASPARANCE, which means it recommends for mobile saving.
But we can see in the streamline that there's still late-depth tests happening.
Checking gets the memory mark in the frame of the camera to help confirm what the unit
is doing.
And these are depth tests for motion vectors.
Changing the motion blur to camera only, remove the depth test, and we say,
1.5 milliseconds.
So, what's next?
Well, we're still getting late-depth tests, and overdraw looks like it could be higher than
it should be.
So, this combination of overdraw and late-depth testing can suggest alpha-toting.
Back in the scene, we can see that the floor detail is one great big cut-out shader, which
would be replaced with a material saving 2.5 milliseconds.
Next, I'm looking at this chunk of time as 100% included quadrate, which, remember I said,
suggests post-processing.
So, I'm going to start optimizing that.
In front of the bugger, I can see that Unity is scheduling an FSR, which is one of the
upscaling filters available in URP when rendering less than around scale of 1.
Now, normally the upscaling filters don't do anything when they're in scale of 1.
FSR is an exception.
It applies some sharpening, even when the render scale hasn't changed.
So, we're not using that in this project, so we can turn it off, which saves 6 milliseconds.
That worked well.
What else can we take out of this section?
Well, in Trend Advisor, we can see that there are multiple render passes for bloom and depth
of field.
So, now we can check the Unity docs to make sure that we've set the mark efficiently.
Detail set to bloom, which is found on high-quality filtering, and downsample to a courser rate,
which saves 2 milliseconds.
And depth of field, the docs say to use Gaussian blur, not focus, saving another 4 milliseconds.
Next, there's not much to suggest that geometry is a huge problem in this scene,
but because of the potential impact, it's worth trying.
So, we can use another level of detail for meshes that further away, and for this project,
that gives us another 2 milliseconds.
However, geometry isn't just about meshes, it's about shadows.
So, the geometry phase is made up of those three arters, so we can just remove one of those.
There are actually very few real-time lights in this scene, so we don't lose much in terms
of visual quality, we just want to turn those off.
So, what we do lose is the entire render pass, which saves five seconds.
You can see that one of those junction passes is now gone.
At the end of all that, we've got a frame that looks pretty close to how it did before,
except that it's now much more efficient.
Now, I said at the start of this talk that there usually isn't one big change that you can make
that makes your game run significantly better, and instead it's a bunch of small decisions
that add up to good or bad performance.
However, with just a little bit of knowledge about what the GPU needs to do,
the tools available to measure how well it's doing it, and the options you have for improving that,
those small decisions will hopefully be a bit easier for you to make.
Once you know how to do that, you can see the type of big changes that I said
wasn't possible and started.
Thank you.
Now, I don't want to go over to Dominic's talk, but if you do have questions,
please come and see me at the daily table at the back of the room after this talk.
I'm going to hand over to Dominic for talking about the class here.
Thanks again.
Hi.
Welcome to this talk about the game.
My name is Dominic, and I am a…
I am a game and middleware developer at the Naked Death, and you know who we are.
We're not always naked.
We're actually verbally open and closed.
But we also really believe in being open and transparent about all the technologies that we create.
And over the past few years, we have been working really hard on integrating up-gaming technologies for Unity,
like FSR, DSS, XSS, and a few more mobile-oriented ones like SDSR and ARM ASR.
Originally, we created these tools for our own in-house developed games,
but we noticed that there was a bit of asking the Unity game developer community.
And so we decided to also board over our assets to be rendered up to the URP and HURP,
and release them as assets on the Unity asset store.
But what exactly is Upscape?
Well, when you first start up a game, it generally starts at a major resolution of your monitor,
like an AEP or 4K at the time.
If you run a game, a high-intensive vision game, on a lower-step hardware,
specifically from all the GPU,
you may notice that it's very difficult to get to the golden standard of 60 frames per second.
One of the ways to then fix this is to lower the resolution of the game,
which can increase the performance of the game.
And it will look like this.
Then, generally, a technique called bilinear input sampling is being added,
which stretches out the pixels of the low-resolution input over the entire monitor,
making it look like this.
A little bit blurry, but at least you will be able to use your whole monitor.
Now, the difference between bilinear up-sampling and up-scaling
is that where up-sampling only makes it stretch out the entire monitor.
Up-scaling actually makes it look like it were a native frame.
Now, this technique of up-scaling does add a render time,
but the cost of this added render time is much lower than the actual performance benefit
from rendering a game at a lower resolution,
meaning that in most scenarios you get a great performance boost.
Let's look at the real world example of our in-house development game in Cicic Springs.
Originally, we had a bit of an issue running the game at 4K on the inspect hardware,
which is changing 17 milliseconds per frame in GPU.
Then, when we decrease the rendering resolution by 1.5 or even lower, divided by 3,
the rendering time significantly decreases.
Then, when we add in an up-scale like FSR 3,
you can see that the render time takes about a long min-second to add in the up-scaler,
but still allows us to run the game at a much better frame rate of a 600 and higher,
which is fantastic, of course, but it does come at a cost.
So, how exactly do up-scalers work, and what I call up-scalers actually are out there?
Well, currently, there are three types of up-scalers.
Spatial up-scalers, and forward up-scalers, and machine learning up-scalers.
Spatial up-scalers, like FSR 1,
apply a little integration work into your game engine or game,
but they don't do very much more than in your foot sampling.
They stretch out pixels and maybe add in a few sharpening tricks.
And as you can see, when rendering our beloved sponsor demo scene,
the up-scalers are really exciting.
You can add in a bit of TKA to make it a bit more efficient,
but it will remain very limited.
What is more exciting are temporal up-scalers.
They do require much more work to integrate into a game,
as you need buffering different buffers.
You need the color buffer, which is official representation of what has been rendered in the game.
You need the depth buffer, which tells the up-scalers how far objects are from the main camera.
And you need the motion vector, which is, again, a representation of every color moving object in the scene and how fast they are moving.
Then we add a small patterned offset to the game camera every frame,
and we collect sub-pixel data over multiple frames and use this historical pixel data
to create a high-quality image by using from complex mathematics samples.
For example, for episode 3, we use a dilation path where we separate the forefront from the background.
Then there's a disseclusion path where we find pixels that were dissecluded in previous frames
that now are visible or dissecluded.
We also have changes in brightness and remarketing features like small wires.
And all of this data is used to weigh how much pixel data for each frame should be blended with the current frame
to create a smooth, sharp and very detailed reconstruction of what a data frame should be like in the process.
As you can see on the left, we have a low-resolution input of 360p,
but still pretending to be on the right by that side.
And lastly, we are pushing mirroring-based subscalers.
They have basically the same requirements as the temporal ones,
but not only using the green and black mathematics,
they also use the low-resolution input and take it through a free-trade influence model
to improve and increase the visual quality.
A few well-known unscalers are NVIDIA's DLSS,
A and B 7-star Redstone,
XCSS by Intel,
and of course, BSSR by Sony,
or the PlayStation 5 Pro.
And all of these machine learning-based subscalers make use of specialized hardware to speed up the calculations,
with one exception called XCSS,
which can actually run in basically any modern GPU,
with the downside that it will be slower if it doesn't have the required specialized hardware.
As you can see, the landscape results are, again, fairly impressive,
boldly compatible into all the landscape.
DLSS 1 was the first to have been pre-trained for a game which made it quite difficult to integrate into the project,
because you need a partnership with NVIDIA,
and the visual results were quite mixed in what we were in ghosting.
DLSS 2 solved most of these issues but still had a ghosting issue,
and major iterations were used as 3 and now 4 are much more impressive and more detailed visual outputs.
So now that we know a little bit about upscalers and how they work,
what are the downsides inside that's of using an upscale?
Well, we already know the spatial upscalers' visual quality isn't really up to snot anymore.
So to all our machines in a web page, this gets a little bit more complex.
One of the side effects of this overall and human web page is that
using sub-pixel data over multiple frames,
it's about the same thing that happens when you add TAA to a project,
which can be a positive and negative point.
Personally, I'm a huge fan of TAA,
which I maybe don't like shimmering from just 3 pixels,
but the common perception of TAA is that it adds a more unwanted blur.
And another side effect of downsides is that in many cases,
the depth and motion vector buttons that are required are lacking,
which will be presented by this.
This is supposed to be a tree, generally moving in a ring,
but the voltage displacement of the moving tree isn't being added to the motion vector button,
and in fact, episode 3 has no idea what to do with the moving pixels.
And this happens a lot in Unity as well,
because WorldSpace UI, GPU instance objects,
and frame vegetation,
and basically every transparent object
aren't being added to either the depth of the motion vector button.
Which brings us to the challenges of actually integrating UPSCAPE into Unity.
It takes a lot of work to get the best visual results when using UPSCAPE,
and there are a lot of examples out there,
also in the third way in the industry,
where it didn't integrate really well,
Cosmine, Flutter, or Ghostlink,
or other kinds of visual artifacts.
It's just a real shame,
because UPSCAPE can be a great way to lower
the human hardware requirements,
or be able to add visually intensive graphical features,
like real-time ray tracing.
So, the first challenge of Unity
is the limited depth and motion vector button.
Luckily, this can easily be fixed
by using a feature in many of the UPSCAPE's
called using a reactive mask.
As a design firm,
we are able to manually add in objects to this reactive mask,
and this way we will tell the UPSCAPE to use less of fixed data
which creates a much better output.
Another issue in Unity, in particular,
is the use of multiple cameras.
Now, in the past,
Unity developers worked hard to use multiple cameras
for a wide range of graphical solutions,
like, for example,
if you were creating a first-person shooter,
you don't want the gun to hit through a ring
when it's located through a wall.
So, a long way to fix that
is to create a secondary camera
and make it only render the gate of the gun,
and then stack it on top of the gate camera.
And now, when it's physically quickly,
it will be able to render on top.
Another side effect of using multiple cameras
is that even if the secondary camera
isn't rendering anything,
it still has a huge CPU overhead,
which is effectively cancelling out
the effectiveness of NutsCAPE.
And this is a big problem in Unity altogether,
because it's too easy to,
when you create a new project,
to get pulled back by the CPU,
again, making NutsCAPE very less fast.
And lastly, Unity wasn't built
with NutsCAPE in mind.
So, it took us a lot of time,
months of work and research
into finding out how to actually implement NutsCAPE
into the engine.
And then, when we decided to port it
over to all the NutsCAPE lines,
it took us again many months
of finding out the best ways
to inject the technology
into the NutsCAPE pipeline.
Luckily, over time, we've learned
to find the NutsCAPE
for either to 2021,
until the latest version of 6.
NutsCAPE.
So, should you actually use NutsCAPE?
Yes.
But, I might be a little bit biased
as I'm setting these assets on the asset store.
So, let's look at an example
of the 50 of strings again.
Originally, after doing lots and lots
of performance optimization techniques
as John already talked about,
the game ran great
on an MPDR-RGX 3060 at 4K,
which is quite a bit high minimum hardware requirement
for a small time in the game.
And so, for that reason,
we decided to investigate
if EPSR2 was an option.
And we're really glad that we did
because after integrating EPSR2,
we were able to lower the minimum hardware requirements
to move into the GTX 1050,
also opening the doors to port the game
to the previous generation of consoles
and even to the Switch 1.
There was another side effect,
and then said,
you can actually run the game
at a native resolution,
insert the UpsCAPE output
at a native resolution again,
only adding in the unintended side effect
of some of the industry's best DAA hardware.
So, should you use an UpsCAPE in your game?
Well, yes.
But you should always give your players
the option to enable it or not.
And ideally, it will also give them the option
to reach UpsCAPE that you don't want to use.
But adding in these UpsCAPE,
we will increase your target audience
and it allows you to use new fancy technologies.
Which brings us to some of the most common misconceptions
about UpsCAPE.
Since 3D games have been updated,
A-D-A-C has been a thing as well.
And there are a lot of NTAs
of different things out there.
You know,
A-D-A-A,
S-M-A-A,
A-D-A-A,
A-D-A-A,
some are fast,
with blurry,
others duplicate dual,
frame lines,
some are limited to only a specific rendering type,
or they have ghostly.
There simply isn't a one hit wonder after.
But in practice,
having cheap shopping filter,
a cash shopping filter,
will fix most of your added
fly-T-A-A and UpsCAPE.
On the left here,
you can see the default T-A-A by Unity.
And on the right,
you see the rock solid,
a very detailed result of the UpsCAPE
with a cash shopping filter.
And this will also hold up against an image without any TAA.
And talking about the UpsCAPE,
is it always better than MSR?
Well,
yes,
the UpsCAPE is considered best in class,
but only if your game is really working well with the pre-trend model.
I've seen a lot of customers
creating stylized high-concept in-game games.
And generally,
they get a lot of visual artifacts
when using the new transformable UpsCAPE.
So in their cases,
it's often best to use MSR3
for a more utility of visual quality.
Additionally,
the UpsCAPE is locked to a video to use only,
while our UpsCAPE offers
basically every platform without any hardware mutation.
And last one.
How would the new innovation developers use UpsCAPE?
Well,
it takes real effort
to make an UpsCAPE work well with a specific game for Android.
You need a full understanding of your game's performance
to bottlenecks
and do a lot of co-finding.
So,
UpsCAPE and the UpsCAPE
isn't a silver bullet
to making your project
great and happy to wide-sustained framework.
There are lots of steps involved
before that game becomes relevant.
And how does this translate to mobile?
Well, mobile platforms are different.
There are more limited factors.
There's less focus on performance
and more in saving battery life
and thermal management.
For example,
if you have an intensive game target
at a later resolution
at 60 frames per second
and it takes around 100% GPU usage,
it will bring the battery life really quickly
and probably start to funnel
or clean the project
due to high temperatures.
Now, imagine the insert in an UpsCAPE
still targeting
for the same 60 frames per second
but now the GPU
doesn't actually have grown as hard
significantly lowering the GPU usage
increasing battery life
and saving the temperatures.
So UpsCAPE can be really beneficial
to be used on mobile games
allowing them to score high quality visuals
and improving the player gaming experiences.
The only problem here
is that UpsR3,
while it will run on mobile,
it's often too hacky.
Where it takes about a millisecond
to run it on PC,
it can take a lot longer
to run even on mobile device.
which is why ARM created
ARM at the UpsCAPE solution
and can play a UpsCAPE
based in UpsR2
but optimized on mobile
and bring the same visual quality
just by passing.
And they're also working on
ARM neural super-resolution,
a machine learning-based UpsCAPE
for mobile
where the neural of the UpsCAPE
is way too big and slow
to run on mobile
even if you're only locked
whereas the neural of the UpsCAPE
only.
ARM MSS allows you to
free-train your own mobile
on your own game
resulting in much smaller
and faster mobile.
And this could be a real game-changer
for mobile game development
saving battery life
and both.
And you know,
to make it that far
I'm really excited to see
how this technology
will evolve over time.
And if you want to know more
please stick around
in the next talk
by Sergio Aguilino
who knew
and he died
in neural
archaeological
I see
I still haven't
a bit of time left
and so I wanted to close
a little bit about
frame generation.
And these technologies
are often
close in time together
which is difficult
because the technologies
are very different.
There are not
scalar
processing
low resolution
input
and output
but a higher resolution
but in general
it takes two already
rendered frames
and creates a whole
new frame in between
effectively
doubling your frame rate
causing for a much smoother
gateway
and the only downside
is quite a bit of
the great input
back.
what can mean
the refuge
tricks
we can decrease
the input back
which makes
frame generation
really interesting
technology.
And one of the added
bonuses for frame
integration
is that it actually
adds a bit of
the blue
on top of
the phone's
CPU and GPU
making upscaler
more effective
as well.
In the library
one
adding the upscaler
makes frame generation
a bit more
so there is a
compounding effect
of using
both of them
together.
And this is also
the reason why
we decided to do
a lot of research
into finding out
if we were able
to create
frame generation
integration
for unity
in the future.
And I'm really
proud to announce
that we will
be releasing
a safe generation
in the coming
month.
I'd like to thank you
very much for
listening to the
talk and a big
shout out to
ARN for lying
here on stage
at GDC.
and if you have
any questions
please feel free
to ask them
now or
I'll be here
all day
and I know
in several weeks
of just finding
the depth share
and I'd like
to talk about
that scale.
And also feel free
if you want
to know more
about our
webscaling assets
to the scanning
QR code
please feel free.
Any questions?
Thank you.
